00:00:06.000 - 00:01:01.408, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. So I'm will. I'm the founder of Rhinofi, which is an all in one platform for Defi. We make it safe and easy to access Defi on every different chain, fully self custodially. And I'm going to be speaking about the number of roll ups we now have talk about how we got to this position, then look at some of the statistics to how roll ups are doing, how the competition is going between them, some of the tools that I think are going to be really important for how rollups differentiate against each other and how they are going to combat each other, to try and give us the best user experience and then what peace could look like eventually in a few years time in the roll up space. So let's start off with, how did we get to this position where there are so many roll ups out there? Actually, it's not just roll ups. We've had this EVM cambrian explosion where there are just so many EVM chains, and in a lot of ways they look very similar.
00:01:01.408 - 00:01:44.874, Speaker A: And for users, this is incredibly confusing. But in a way, this has come out of a result of a demand for block space. So in the beginning we had Ethereum and Ethereum was great, we could build smart contracts for the first time. And we saw the emergence of Defi and we thought that that was going to last forever. But actually very quickly, as Defi and crypto usage grew, we had congestion, we had high gas prices, and we had slow block times. And so back a couple years ago now, four or five years ago, we had this idea that L2 would just come along and solve all of our problems. And these were some of the very early L2 s that were being talked about maybe three years ago.
00:01:44.874 - 00:02:20.210, Speaker A: And some of those, of course, are still around today and still have become what we're talking about for L2. But the reality is what we have looks a lot more like this. So there's a whole bunch of L2s, or things that call themselves L2 s. There's also lots of layer ones which are EVM compatible. There are things that call themselves L2 s, but actually layer ones, there are maybe layer three s soon on the horizon. And there are all these complex bridges connecting them together with different risk assumptions and trust assumptions, and it's a mess. And there's already a competition starting to form over why builders or users would go to these different chains.
00:02:20.210 - 00:02:53.390, Speaker A: But it's very difficult from a user perspective to figure out how to do this safely, which chains and evms you can trust and which can be used. And so we need to get out of this situation. We need to find a solution for people to really trust defi and crypto and be able to safely use this L2 network. And we want to make it feel like one seamless experience. And that's just the beginning. I think over the next two years, we're going to see thousands of rollups launch. It's going to get even easier to launch a roll up, but 95% of them will never reach sustainable usage.
00:02:53.390 - 00:03:44.928, Speaker A: And we saw the same thing happen in the layer one space over the last few years. And ultimately most layer ones never got adoption, never got used. But there was a lot of energy that went into building those and using them. And so we're going to see this technological race and a really brutal competition for attention. And a price will potentially play out, which in some ways may be good for users because we'll end up with a great set of secure L2s at the end of it, but in the meantime, may be bad for this ecosystem and make it harder for users to navigate. So let's look at what is actually happening right now in terms of the way that rollups have evolved and the statistics on them being used. But just before we do that, I think we should consider what is the business model of a roll up or a L2? And really, these are two sided markets.
00:03:44.928 - 00:04:37.348, Speaker A: Like any blockchain, they need to build an ecosystem of applications and liquidity that people want to use, and then they need to also attract the users to come and use that ecosystem. If they can do that, then they can charge transaction fees just like any chain, and then they pay a subset of those transaction fees to the layer one for the security that they're essentially renting from, for example, Ethereum. Or in future it could be from things like Celestia for data availability, or other layer ones. And obviously, if the amount of fees that they're able to charge to end users is higher than the security they're paying, then it's a sustainable layer, too. And they've reached that sort of critical mass. So if we look today, there are some roll ups that have already reached that sustainable level of fees compared to what they're paying. So arbitrum is an example that has really seen big revenues.
00:04:37.348 - 00:05:19.454, Speaker A: Now, actually they have enough users and enough critical mass to be charging transaction fees. And actually they have a 30% to 40% profit margin currently on what they're charging versus what they're paying to Ethereum. And that gives them quite a high annualized revenue, which they can put into the DAO to continue to invest into building that ecosystem. And optimism is in a similar position. It's still growing very fast, but most other roll ups have not reached that point yet, and most probably never will. So there are several levers they're going to have to think about in terms of going head to head. First of all, those two points about building an ecosystem and then attracting users to it.
00:05:19.454 - 00:06:14.974, Speaker A: And then second, what fees can they really charge and what are their costs going to be for the security and the competitive pressures that we're starting to see play out now as we get more and more roll ups is going to be good at pushing all of those to really be optimized and making people have to fight over the attention of us as users of these roll ups. If we look though over the last few years and see where we are now, the top line is Ethereum's market share of TVL, and it has gradually dropped. And then we've seen correspondingly some growth in most of these other EVM environments or L2 s. You can see a small green line down at the bottom. That's arbitrum. So on the grand scale of things, really, the market share of most rollups is still tiny and arbitrum is in the lead. And so this is not a game that's yet played out.
00:06:14.974 - 00:06:54.902, Speaker A: Although often when we're looking at rollups, we think that maybe the biggest ones have already emerged. There's still a lot to play for. And if we look again at those stats, arbitrum, for example, has grown from 1.8% to about 5% of TVL in DeFi, but that's still very small numbers, and most of the others are still nowhere near that. And for example, Tron and BNB chain are larger. And so it's really very early in this competition. If we look at TVL, arbitrum optimism and Zksync are kind of the front runners in terms of open EVM environment rollups.
00:06:54.902 - 00:07:56.554, Speaker A: Arbitrum at about $6 billion TVL, but most way below that, and same with transactions per second. Actually, we're getting closer to what is going through Ethereum for some of these, but the numbers are relatively low compared to what they're set up to be able to handle. There are some sort of honorable mentions like Starknet, which is growing steadily but is a bit earlier in that lifecycle, and also Polygon ZKVM, which launched very recently but growing quite fast. But basically there's still hundreds more to launch. So even in the next few months, we've got base by Coinbase, linear by consensus scroll coming later this year, and a starknet full launch. So it's going to get a lot, there's going to be a lot more competitive pressure, and so we need to think about how that's going to play out and what the experience is going to be for users trying to navigate through that. And on top of that, there's things like Celestia Rolekit, which states, literally is its goal to make it possible to deploy a sovereign roll up on Celestia in just minutes.
00:07:56.554 - 00:09:00.824, Speaker A: So we're just at the beginning here. The actual infrastructure of launching a roll up is going to get so simple that literally anyone can do that. And you can imagine, for example, launching your own roll up for a product or an application where you have a bit more control and able to fork and upgrade it, compared with launching on arbitrum or optimism or some other public roll up where you don't have that power as an application builder. So if we're going to see all of this, what sort of tools do these roll ups have to really encourage them to become the largest ecosystems and to attract builders and users? And I think in the short term, the main factor is still cost. So as Rhino Fi, we support six different roll ups, as well as a few other EVM chains. And what we already see is that cost is a big sensitivity factor for current users of rollups. And this data here was taken on quite a low cost day a few days ago.
00:09:00.824 - 00:10:16.264, Speaker A: Ethereum around $4.5 for a simple transaction, whereas Polygon, ZK EVM and Zksync, the ZK roll ups, a bit more expensive than optimistic rollups, but not much in it. And we're talking in the range almost all the time. When gas prices get high, that can still get important for users, and there are quite a few levers already available today to sort of change those and allow these roll ups to compete. So ZK rollups are currently more expensive most of the time, but they have an advantage at high transaction throughput. So as they get more and more adoption, their overall cost per transaction goes down because of the way that the roll ups amortize the cost, whereas optimistic roll ups don't necessarily benefit from that quite in the same way. And all roll ups are soon going to benefit from EIP 4844 and proto dance logging, which will reduce the cost for putting data on chain and mean that basically all these numbers should come down, which will give them a choice as to whether they capture more of that as basically revenue through their sequences or whether they pass it back to users in order to compete and attract more builders and users.
00:10:16.264 - 00:11:00.458, Speaker A: And there's also going to be choices around data availability. But long term, what we can expect is that this probably won't be the competitive ground because the cost should come down everywhere. Community is the other area that I think we're going to see very much in the short to medium term, a lot of competition. And this is really about ecosystem building is hard. We've seen how hard it is from layer ones, where many chains with incredible technology didn't manage to get critical mass and get builders to come there. Once you've got a head start, as we're already seeing happening with places like arbitrum and optimism, maybe it's very difficult to convince people to take a big risk on some other roll up. And so it's going to get even harder.
00:11:00.458 - 00:11:31.134, Speaker A: If you want to do this, you need to have really strong grants programs. You need to build a real strong sense of culture and excitement in the way that ethereum did in the early days. And we can see good examples already out there. For example, Zksync launched very recently and did put a huge amount of energy into ecosystem building before launching, and therefore has managed to quickly jump into one of the top few chains. But this is something you need a lot of. You need a big team, a big amount of funding in order to do this properly. It's not going to be a case of best technology wins.
00:11:31.134 - 00:12:18.688, Speaker A: I don't think token economics is the other big lever that ties into that airdrop hunting. Airdrop incentives has been massive in terms of getting these first few roll ups live. And I think that will continue to be the case. But there has to be then the ability to build sustainable ecosystems, to then capture that and keep people coming back, which we haven't necessarily seen, seen evidence of yet. Remember, even those leading roll ups like arbitrum and optimism are quite small in TVL compared to Ethereum, for example. And so that may not be enough to say for sure that they have really something which can't be stolen away. And we saw, for example, on the chart before Polygon and some other EVM environments that were layer ones have lost a lot of market share recently.
00:12:18.688 - 00:12:52.954, Speaker A: So even what they gained over a year ago didn't necessarily stick around always. And then interoperability is the other one. So one thing that these roll ups can compete on is how fast finality is. And that is basically when blocks are finalized in these roll ups. And the shorter the finality time, the easier it is to bridge to these chains. ZK rollups can theoretically have very short finality times, whereas optimistic rollups need to wait a little longer to verify things. But there's all sorts of things that are now blurring the lines here, and that's a big area of competition between rollups.
00:12:52.954 - 00:14:31.224, Speaker A: So you can have, for example, committees that give soft finality by basically verifying that blocks have been seen in the sequencer and won't be rolled back. You can also have hybrid models between optimistic and ZK roll up, which may increase costs slightly but give shorter finality. And from what we're seeing at the moment in terms of adoption, having fast, low cost bridging is the single biggest driver of growth in user activity. And I think long term will be one of the things that can really give very strong competitive advantages to specific roll ups or EVM chains. And quality matters more than quantity on these bridges, because if you can move quickly your fund's on, you're more willing to experiment, try it out, and same with moving them off. And just anecdotally, at the moment, the trend tends to be that the chains that have been most successful in gaining TVL and getting new users to come and at least experiment and try them out, have been the ones with the most bridge options. So let's think about, as these factors all play out over the next few years, what could peace eventually look like for the roll up ecosystem? What do we want to see happen? And one thing that we could see happen, and that some people think we will see, would be a single survivor, a single roll up that becomes dominant, that everyone comes to use, and where you can get basically the same experience we used to get on Ethereum when it had a small amount of users, where you get full composability, and you don't have to think about all these different roll up options.
00:14:31.224 - 00:15:28.942, Speaker A: Now, there are some reasons why we don't want to see that. If we think back to the kind of business model of a roll up, if you're charging transactions, if a single roll up ends up being the one that exists, they basically have a monopoly. They can charge whatever transaction fees they want and just pay a small amount of that as security to Ethereum. And so I think for all of us, we should want to avoid a monopoly over this. Although there are ways you can mitigate that with, for example, decentralizing sequences and other things. I think more likely we want to see many different roll ups with different trade offs living in harmony. And if we want that to happen, there are a few things that we need to work on now as a community to make sure that we actually get a decentralized ecosystem of different roll ups with different characteristics that feel to users as a seamless experience.
00:15:28.942 - 00:16:27.934, Speaker A: First of all, we want low risk protocol level interoperability, something like IBC in the cosmos ecosystem. Second of all, we want more shared infrastructure. So, for example, shared provers, shared data availability, shared sequences, and there are teams now working on these sorts of things, but they're not being used yet in our existing roll up ecosystem, and then differentiated cultures and community. So clear reasons and clear trade offs that have been chosen by different roll ups as to why you might build one application on one roll up, which might be cheaper but less secure, and another on a different one, which is very high level of decentralization but more expensive. And I think it's important to think that users themselves are very likely to, to be infrastructure agnostic. They won't care which chain or L2 they're on as long as it serves their needs and they can move quickly between them. But applications and products will maybe care and will want to be able to have different levels of trade offs on security, cost and sovereignty.
00:16:27.934 - 00:17:35.196, Speaker A: So at rhino five, we're trying to be an aggregator layer for all rollups. We want it to be a seamless experience to move between these different DeFi ecosystems and for the user not to have to worry so much which one they're on. So already you can go through most of the top roll ups through rhino Phi, optimism, arbitrum, et cetera, and you can bridge between them. You can also go into yield opportunities on any of them, self custodially with basically one click of a button, without having to worry about whether that opportunity was on arbitrum or polygon, and know that it's been sort of vetted and aggregated into this one sort of user experience, tracking your funds everywhere. We think that's really important now because it gives this feeling that all of this ecosystem is a single seamless ethereum extension, rather than many different blockchains competing with each other. So we have support for Starkx. And actually, the core infrastructure that we use to enable all of this is Starkx, built by the Starkware team way back before they were focused on stocknet.
00:17:35.196 - 00:18:11.464, Speaker A: And that gives us the ability to give a really consistent user experience across all the other chains that we then support. For example, we have this bridge option, which is one of the most popular things that's on rhino fi. We've had over 300,000 transactions through it. You can basically bridge between these different chains in 15 seconds. So a few takeaways that I just wanted to go back to. First of all, in the next twelve months it's going to be possible to launch a roll up in minutes. But just because we can doesn't mean we always should launch more of these roll ups.
00:18:11.464 - 00:18:48.034, Speaker A: I think if we don't address the interoperability between them, we're going to see this war get even worse over the next few years, as there's just more and more competition for attention over very similar looking rollups. And for users, that's going to be a very bad experience. And so instead we should think about the fact that users won't care necessarily which L2 they're on, they'll just want it to be a seamless experience. And I do encourage you to try out rhino fi if you want to have an idea of what that sort of L2 defi future can maybe look like at an early stage. Thank you very much.
00:18:55.014 - 00:19:47.534, Speaker B: Any questions? Yes, thank you. Does it work? Amazing. So your main pitch was, and I agree with you, it will be very easy to bring a roll up on Ethereum. And your main idea was it should be like that, that a roll ups needs to be like there will be one winner, there will be more, and it should be like this according to Ethereum values. But the thing is, you're bringing three and how you will define whether to take the project or not, since it will be really easy to launch roll up. You as a project need to somehow sort, if we take this project or not, and it will be not also a monopoly point, if I understand this correctly, how we will solve this problem.
00:19:47.694 - 00:20:47.814, Speaker A: Personally, I think there's different schools of thought on this, but personally I think that the user layer interfaces have a responsibility to do betting in this space to figure out what is secure, to look at the different trust assumptions of different roll ups or projects, to look at audits and to curate a little bit. But of course there will be multiple platforms doing that. That then mean that we still have access to everything in DeFi. I don't think it's enough to just say, oh, it's an open ecosystem, let anything go on here. And we've already seen this. There are plenty of EVM chains which call themselves, for example, L2s roll ups, but which aren't, or which have very centralized elements to their bridges or whatever else it might be. And I think as DeFi we need to be working on trust and credibility at this point if we want to see real adoption and for DeFi to be a genuine alternative to CDFI or CFI.
00:20:47.814 - 00:20:56.650, Speaker A: So yeah, I think we have a responsibility to curate and to look at what's safe and how does it work.
00:20:56.682 - 00:21:06.154, Speaker B: Right now, how you onboard the project? Who decides if we will onboard the project or not? And what is long term vision of.
00:21:06.274 - 00:21:26.284, Speaker A: Your protocol at the moment that's a decision made by our team and I think it's, it's still relatively low effort to do it just because there's smaller options. But I think in future, if we want to be transparent about it, there needs to be very clear kind of guidance and criteria that maybe can involve more users and community.
00:21:27.504 - 00:22:02.020, Speaker B: So currently you're making decision within your team centralized one. Do you have a long term vision to decentralize this thing? Because like you understand it's a really critical point because like you, you're bringing Ethereum and what you're doing, like, like you're solving the problem of centralization, decentralization without, with an argument. It should not be like one l two and what's your sort of a doing? Like, you know, like it's. I also think like a lot of people have this question like this is.
00:22:02.052 - 00:22:25.044, Speaker A: I just asked this, I think it's a good point. We haven't really in detail discussed that, but I think it will be important to have very clear, open criteria. I don't think, for example, user voting is the right way to go about that because ultimately I think it's the safety that's important. But I think having very clear, transparent open processes will be probably the direction we'd go in.
00:22:27.224 - 00:23:01.936, Speaker C: Hi. Thank you for talking. So could you shed some light maybe if you put some thought into that? What do you see? The evolution of privacy tech, and in particular zero knowledge for privacy in the roll up evolution for the years to come. Because one thing that makes me slightly concerned is that we have this point of centralization, which are the roll up sequencers and users transactions are not just available for anyone like in layer one, but they are also aggregated at some central point. So it would be nice to see, in my opinion, some fancy cryptographic tricks to preserve user's privacy. And how do you see that evolution?
00:23:02.080 - 00:23:58.934, Speaker A: Yeah, I think there are already some really fantastic teams working on that problem and you have ZK ZK roll ups. Aztec, for example, did launch a really fantastic stage two of their vision, which allowed you to access ethereum defi in a private way, but they've now closed that down and focusing on the next stage of their vision. And I think ultimately it's true that if we want to see very large scale adoption, and personally, I want DeFi to be an alternative to the traditional financial ecosystem, it will need to be private. I think that's a basic requirement. But the main reason why that hasn't, I think, got big adoption yet is the cost, and it's more difficult to do, and it's more expensive to do so at scale. I think those will be maybe the winners. But for now, I think there's too many other problems to solve around interoperability and other aspects.
00:24:00.914 - 00:24:02.454, Speaker B: I think we have one more question.
00:24:09.994 - 00:24:44.394, Speaker D: Thanks, Bill, and congratulations for the presentation. Really nice and on point. My question is, do you or are you working with an interoperability, a generic interoperability partner for achieving your vision? And number two, would an interoperability protocol with a composable middleware which enables logic based bridging, or, you know, with ability to track state changes between layer ones and L2s, or between L2s, would it be helpful? What's your views on that?
00:24:46.374 - 00:25:19.434, Speaker A: Yeah, great. I think that's a great question. And I think the state of current interoperability protocols, especially across L2 s, is still quite early. There are great sort of options out there from a technology perspective. I mean, I won't name many of them, but seller hop, for example. But the main problem, I think, at the moment is most of those sort of at the moment have optimized for very high level of decentralization, require high collateralization. So they're expensive to use and slow.
00:25:19.434 - 00:26:13.700, Speaker A: And I think longer term, what we would hope to see would be many of these protocols becoming more baked in at the protocol level of rollups. So one example I like is polymer, which is focused on doing, basically bringing IBC between optimistic rollups. And I think personally IBC, which I mentioned before, which is in the cosmos ecosystem, is kind of the sort of end state we should be aiming for between rollups. So, like client bridges between rollups with lower levels of trust assumptions, maybe lower collateralization requirements, but we're not there yet. So for rhino fi, we've sort of made the short term decision to wait and see before too heavily betting on any one protocol, for example. So we're keeping very, relatively diagnostic and waiting to see how that user experience will improve. Yeah, cool.
00:26:13.700 - 00:26:14.244, Speaker A: Thank you very much.
