00:00:00.880 - 00:01:10.700, Speaker A: It's late on a Saturday, on the last day of the conference, so I'll keep this relatively light. So I'm Ryan. I'm one of the co founders of Plaza Finance. We are a cross chain platform for composable and sustainable financial products, things like bonds backed by ETH, BTC, SOL, Adam, TiA that pay a coupon in USDC, something we think makes them more attractive for retail investors and institutional investors, as well as products like liquidation free leverage on those same assets. Today we're going to talk about the state of play in the cosmos ecosystem, why we're here, which is maybe down bad a little bit, how we fix Cosmos and Defi. I'm going to talk a little bit about kind of our platform itself, what we're doing with programmable derivatives and where Defi can go from here. I don't need to tell anyone in the room this, but Cosmos has limited liquidity.
00:01:10.700 - 00:01:36.840, Speaker A: I don't mean that disparagingly. I think it's a point of opportunity for us as an ecosystem. The sad thing about this graph is that no cosmos chain actually appears in the top. I think this is 15 chains. In terms of TVL. I think transaction volume is probably a better metric. And osmosis does okay on that front, something like 30th overall.
00:01:36.840 - 00:02:58.910, Speaker A: But it's very clear for the amount of time that cosmos as an ecosystem has existed. It has a relatively limited amount of liquidity relative to some ecosystems that came to be quite a bit later than Cosmos. I think the bull case for this is if you own cosmos tokens, you could view it as we are still very early and there's a lot of room for them to go up if we can attract that liquidity. The bear case is we've been around trying to do this and trying to figure this out for quite a while, and no one's cracked the nut here. So why does Cosmos have limited liquidity? The way to get users to any ecosystem is one of two ways you can net on board new crypto users, meaning go directly to people who have never seen crypto before, convince them that this is an exciting thing that they should put their money on and onboard them to your ecosystem. The other ramp is to go to other chains that already have crypto users and convince them that there's stuff to do in your ecosystem that's more attractive in some way or more exciting. If our goal is to onboard net new users, I feel like that boat for Cosmos has already set sail.
00:02:58.910 - 00:03:48.548, Speaker A: Solana was really good@onboarding.net. new crypto users and part of how they did that was by aligning with celebrities. So Solana has Iggy Azalea shilling the fact that you should buy a meme coin on Solana, whereas Cosmos has folks like Ethan Buchman who talk about debt repayment cycles. One has millions of Instagram followers, the other has an interesting hairstyle and a research background. Which do you think is going to attract more regular people to use the product? So we shouldn't compete on that front. We don't have the resources to go out and hire a bunch of celebrities to go shill Cosmos chains. So what can we do? I think our focus should be to leverage Cosmos as a tech stack.
00:03:48.548 - 00:04:34.770, Speaker A: We've made great advancements. IBC fast finality through comet, bft consensus. We should lean into that, but focus on our interoperability with other ecosystems that have done a better job of onboarding net new users. Those are Ethereum and Solana. If we keep trying to push Cosmos as a brand in itself, as a place for users to park liquidity, I think that's a recipe for failure. Because, one, you're not going to attract the net new users, and two, like folks on Ethereum and Solana, won't find it attractive. If you create experiences that are native to folks who exist on Ethereum and Solana, you can onboard that liquidity in those users by delivering better products that leverage cosmos technology.
00:04:34.770 - 00:05:45.550, Speaker A: There are a few applications that have worked in Cosmos, and those specifically are perpetuals deXs. So beyond perpetuals dexs, I don't think there have been a significant app within the cosmos ecosystem. The problem for Cosmos with perp stxs having significant scale is that perp stxs are very much walled gardens. You bridge assets onto DyDX, you enter into a long position going five x long ethereum, and that liquidity basically stays on DyDX. I would even argue that that liquidity gets eroded on DyDX by market makers who exploit the trapped liquidity and remove the liquidity overall from the ecosystem. But one thing that's very clear from the two graphs on the screen, one is DyDX and the other is hyper liquid, is that there are huge volumes traded in perpetual futures in cosmos. And the reason these chains built on Cosmos is because of the fast finality and performance you get from building with the Cosmos SDK.
00:05:45.550 - 00:06:44.200, Speaker A: It's pretty clear to me that perps do have product market fit amongst crypto users. Users love to go levered long on the majors, and that's what these platforms are made for. But a problem that exists with these platforms is that the liquidity is trapped within those platforms, meaning they lack composability. Our platform, we aim to increase the composability of derivatives like perpetual futures and more sustainable products, through issuing liquid tokens that represent that position. That then allows users to take those tokenized assets, lend them out, borrow against them, use them to farm points, and allow liquidity to flow more freely throughout the ecosystem. The other problem with perpstexes is that they only support synthetic assets. That, from a user perspective, creates significant risks.
00:06:44.200 - 00:07:48.806, Speaker A: You're basically dependent on the fact that DyDx or hyper liquid won't have an issue for you to get your money out of those platforms by having vaults with assets in them, backing whatever derivative token you're using. There's always the ability to redeem into the vault to get your assets back. And it's generally a safer mechanism for investing in new financial products. One of the other reasons why cosmos has failed to scale liquidity is the lack of institutional involvement. And I would say this is an issue probably across DeFi as a whole. Meaning also for the Ethereum and Solana ecosystems. When the products we're selling are meme coins and 30 x levered purpose products, those are just uninvestable for long dominant traditional financial institutions, who are quite curious in coming on chain.
00:07:48.806 - 00:08:53.660, Speaker A: So for all of you, my background is I used to work as a quant at a hedge fund. So I like to think I know a little bit or two about how tradfi institutions think. But if you're giving them the option of going 30 x long or short, they'll do that in an arb way. And that's kind of helpful for ecosystem liquidity. But how you scale liquidity long term is developing products that they can invest in, long term products that they can park their money in for a five or ten year horizon and earn differentiated returns. The other problem with having highly volatile assets like meme coins and 30 x levered products as the only products that are, that are really actively traded within an ecosystem, is that in order to scale liquidity, you find that DeFi platforms lean very hard into market makers who are ultimately just farming retail flows. This creates a bad experience for real humans who are trying to use DeFi, because they're chasing some dream of a financial future that's better and really just favors these kind of pseudo institutions.
00:08:53.660 - 00:10:27.952, Speaker A: The solution we propose is programmable derivatives, so tokenized structures on top of vaults. You could think of it as user deposits, some asset like Ethereum, we can split the total return of that asset into any number of structures. So to start, we're launching with a bond backed by Ethereum that pays coupon and USDC and liquidation free leverage on that same asset. And we issue liquid tokens for those derivatives so users can go and take them and deposit them in a vault on sommelier, trade them on uniswap, or hold them offline in a cold storage wallet and really give users the power to do more with their assets than they currently can on a purpose exchange. We also think these assets are more sustainable because they're asset backed vaults that users can always redeem back for, instead of purely synthetic products that exist only in the context of an individual perp stacks so what is Plaza? Plaza is a hub for these programmable derivatives we're launching with those two products that I mentioned before. But ultimately, we want to open it up to be permissionless, such that any user can create any structure on any tokenized asset and make it composable and also sustainable. Our goal as a company is to introduce better financial products so that large scale institutions and humans can benefit from participating in DeFi.
00:10:27.952 - 00:11:02.910, Speaker A: Quite core to this is interoperability with other ecosystems. So we love cosmos. We built on the Cosmos SDK. But I think what you'll find, based on the points I made earlier in the talk, is that we are not going to brand ourselves as a cosmos chain. We're going to brand ourselves as a DeFi platform that leverages great cosmos tech. But we're built for people who actually want to use our products, whether they come from Ethereum or Solana or somewhere else. We're also always happy to support native cosmos users, and IBC makes that very easy and convenient.
00:11:02.910 - 00:11:20.380, Speaker A: We hope that you will try our testnet when we launch in the next few weeks, and we'd love to get your feedback on anything you'd love to see on the platform. Long term, we're very open to that.
