00:00:01.720 - 00:00:27.850, Speaker A: Perfect. Are you evolution? Yes. All right. Perfect. All right. Well, good afternoon, everybody. Thank you so much for having me here, everyone, grace and seven x, thanks for the invite.
00:00:27.850 - 00:01:09.534, Speaker A: Glad to be the last speaker here of the day. The topic that I will speak with you guys about is the mix of rural assets and stablecoins. As a by way of background, my name is Nick Garcia. I'm the founder here at Fortunify Reservoir. Fortunify is a cross chain RWA issuer and reservoir is a multicollateral, decentralized, yield bearing stablecoin. So I'll kind of get into a little bit of market overview, a little bit of why now and then, a little bit about how this works, and then we'll take some questions at the end. So in terms of a market overview, I'm sure most of you are aware that the stablecoin market cap is probably the largest chunk of the crypto market cap.
00:01:09.534 - 00:01:59.674, Speaker A: I think it's personally, my perspective is it's been the strongest product market fit within crypto and probably one of the biggest segments that are right for disruption at this point. So this stablecoin market cap is primarily composed of USDT and USDC at about 170 billion for the two. And then there's a handful of others that are emerging and growing in this space, and we'll get into that in a second. You can see here that the value of total locked real assets on chain have also grown exponentially. It's still at a much earlier growth phase than in the stablecoin landscape, but it's sort of been the driving force behind a lot of the new stablecoin designs. And what we're seeing is it's showing up in the data like this. This general segment of real assets is comprised by a lot of different types of assets.
00:01:59.674 - 00:02:38.640, Speaker A: That includes people, which have been very popularized lately. We have tokenized gold, we're getting tokenized stocks more and more, and also tokenized institutional funds. All of this is making its way. Yeah. Can you see the screen here? Yeah. When I go into slideshow mode, it looks like it's not taking through it. Yeah.
00:02:38.640 - 00:03:01.626, Speaker A: Maybe you can just show it like this. Sure. Let me just send it here for everyone. Okay. So I'll kind of go through it here. So went to disabled here. Here we're talking about the total TDL for real assets.
00:03:01.626 - 00:03:38.694, Speaker A: We talked about the breakdown here. We can see sort of the data showing the cumulative transfer volume across stable coins. This is a number that's just constantly scaling, which is obviously showing a lot of indication of utility, of actual stable coins. On the Google trend score, we can see that rolled assets have been trending quite high this past year. There's been a lot of discussions, a lot of innovations, and a lot of research from institutions sort of prophesizing the growth of this space here. Here you can see a handful of large institutions that have sort of made announcements. Right.
00:03:38.694 - 00:04:25.280, Speaker A: PayPal's launching stablecoin, Citibank's exploring tokenizations. Franklin Templeton already has a tokenizing product live today. It's their tokenized treasury product. But they are certainly exploring all of the other ETF's and mutual funds that they have. Newmore and laser digital have been very active in space rwas and stable coins. And obviously Blackrock, which everyone has, I'm sure, heard of, has been getting very active and is certainly also kind of tokenizing all of their treasures. I can also say that I've spoken with several other ETF issuers, and this is definitely a topic across all of them, not only tokenizing their existing products, but new products, and also sort of exploring the stable Quinn landscape space.
00:04:25.280 - 00:05:21.696, Speaker A: We've seen a number of sort of large estimates from institutions on sort of what the size of the space could look like in the next ten years. We've come out with our own sort of analysis comparing sort of growth of crypto and growth of Internet and sort of existing adoption of our blue CNN. You know, we're expecting 30 trillion by 2030. I think even if you take some of the more conservative, conservative assumptions in this space that have been produced, that's still a significant increase from where we're at today, which I can bring you back here and remind you we're at about 5 billion. So that's a pretty significant increase from now. So why tokenization now? Why is this being talked about? Didn't we have some initial pushback in 2017 and 2018? Why did those fail? Why are we really talking about this now? I think there's two main reasons for that. One of them is that the Defi ecosystem was basically non existent back in 2017, 2018.
00:05:21.696 - 00:06:01.794, Speaker A: So there was very little reason to actually hold these tokenized assets on the chain, and there's very little things you could actually do with them. And the second thing was that decentralized stablecoins really haven't taken off yet. We basically had maker at the time, which was originally only built for digital assets. They've since sort of expanded with their legacy infrastructure, if you will, to do t bills and had some issues and some success with that. But, you know, we didn't really have a proper infrastructure across stable coins in DeFi for tokenization and take off, whereas now we're starting to have this change. So the stablecoin opportunity is immense, right? I've talked about tether and circle. I just recently talked about maker here.
00:06:01.794 - 00:06:58.410, Speaker A: We've seen a few new stable coins, right? The sort of existing legacy stable coin is a traditional dollar pegged stablecoin, where the issuer is maintaining all of the interest generated on the assets on balance sheet. What we're starting to see now, in terms of trying to take some of the opportunities from them and drive more value to users, is the concept of yield bearing stable coins. The concept of yield bearing stable coins start to really make sense once you understand how real debts are being brought on chain and how these are sort of helping scale some of this. So on the Athena side, right, they're basically backing themselves with funding rate arbitrage. You know, you have folks like Ando that are backing themselves with t bills. And so what you have is you have a new layer of decentralized stable coins that have generally been single acid backed. There's different pros and cons of having a single acid back to a grain stablecoin.
00:06:58.410 - 00:08:03.566, Speaker A: The bigger con is generally that you're relatively constricted on growth and on yield, because market cycles change and the profile risk of the yield of underlying assets change dramatically. On the teagle side, it's obviously much more conservative, but as yields on the teagle side go down, they will be less competitive with other sort of opportunities on chain. And so in our view, there is a humongous opportunity to build a multicollateral yield bearing stablecoin. And that's what we've been working on here at reservoir. And happy to sort of go into details, but I think it's important to kind of understand that the RWA opportunity and the stablecoin opportunity go hand in hand. And we sort of fundamentally believe that the best stablecoin will be backed by a variety of different high quality assets, both RWA assets and traditional on chain assets. So how does sportunify work? How does tokenization work in general? So, taking you through this high level tokenization stack, if you will, at the highest level, we call it sort of the layer one.
00:08:03.566 - 00:08:38.492, Speaker A: You have the originating, the underwriting, and sort of the legal infrastructure behind the tokenization. This is typically been a team of credit professionals or an outsourced group helping folks. In our particular case, we have our own fully built up underwriting team, and we partner with other institutions to tokenize their products. But effectively, there's this underwriting layer and legal layer. So in most cases it's a private fund structure. In some cases there's been certain jurisdictions that have approved tokenizing direct securities. Again, there's some pros and cons there.
00:08:38.492 - 00:09:12.230, Speaker A: They can only tokenize direct tickers. It's a bit harder to tokenize an institutional fund in that particular jurisdiction. But in our particular case we use VGI. We have a fund structure which is the more common structure, and I think works really well. Going on to level two is you sort of have the smart contract layer, basically the tokenization of that off chain asset. There originally had been many different smart contract players doing the tokenization. In some cases the crunching or securitization, if you will, of the.
00:09:12.230 - 00:09:33.000, Speaker A: We have built this from the ground up and asked. We used to use census review. Some of you may be familiar with them. We since built our own service organization app. You can see sort of the UI on the right. Effectively we allow any user or entity to onboard. They do the KyC AML, we can onboard both us and non us.
00:09:33.000 - 00:10:31.366, Speaker A: And once you're on boarded, you can pick an asset, you can pick your chain and you can bin there directly. So today, as you can see, we have t bills, we have an equity index, which is the S and P and QQQ Mix 50 50. We have a spot coinbase product and a spot robin product. In the next few weeks we'll be launching a delta neutral product by a large institution called Hilbert Group, which will be providing a 15% delta neutral yield with the next 2% drawdown in daily liquidity. So the longer term vision is really supporting all kinds of tokenized assets through the fortunify application infrastructure and enabling sort of multiple support on any chain that has demand for this, and enabling users to actually use these assets across DeFi and sort of find ways to monetize it on chain as opposed to just holding it in a brokerage account. The third layer here is. The third and fourth layer are basically liquidity layers on chain.
00:10:31.366 - 00:11:03.570, Speaker A: The third layer is really your d two p cross chain liquidity, right? This is your lending markets, this is your permission pools. This is your yield vaults. This is your base wave Defi infrastructure. The fourth layer, in our opinion, is the true liquidity layer of crypto, which is the stablecoin layer. So we very early days worked with Makerdao in terms of bringing tokenized rolled assets to their balance sheet. Since then there's been a number of protocols and stable coins looking to integrate with real assets. And we've been looking to support many of them.
00:11:03.570 - 00:11:57.134, Speaker A: And as I've mentioned before, we've been developing a stablecoin called reservoir, to be backed by both rule of assets and digital assets, which I'll get into here in a second. But we think that the scalability of a purpose built stable coin that's multicollateral, that can onboard both traditional assets and digital assets at scale, will be a major inflection point for real world assets and decentralized table points more broadly. So how does reservoir work? I won't get into it too deep, because I know we're starting to run out of time here, but I. At a high level, we have four core primitives. We have a stable coin that's packed to dollar with no yield. It's a traditional stablecoin, more used for sort of borrowing and LP and trading and sort of more retail use cases. We have a yield bearing product which you can mint with our stablecoin, and it's called srusd.
00:11:57.134 - 00:12:59.354, Speaker A: It'll earn a yield from the protocol that's fully linked with the convention routine anytime it's fully composable, and will be cross chain supported as well very soon. We then have a term version of the yield grand stablecoin, which effectively you're locking up your stablecoin for three, 6912 months and you're getting a bond token, which is a fungible token that collects coupon payments every quarter, and then the remaining principal and interest at the end. This token is also composable. I believe it's actually the first coupon based bond that's been created on VM so far. And then we also have a reboot market, so users can come in and lock up a variety of different collaterals and our stable coin on a fixed or variable rate basis. I think one of the core things about our particular stablecoin is not just the fact that it's multicollateral, but also the fact that it has a duration based balance sheet. So the introduction of a bond to a stablecoin allows the stablecoin to have non liquid assets on the balance sheet that can match the maturities across the assets and liabilities.
00:12:59.354 - 00:13:43.588, Speaker A: So for example, if the protocol has a twelve month bond product that represents about 10% of the TPL of the balance sheet of the protocol. The asset side of the protocol can also onboard assets that match up to twelve month durations. And this sort of provides a differentiated source of yield and collateral as well. That should help. The protocol grows here just kind of quickly talking through the bound, there will be both traditional Defi native sources to back the balance sheet, as well as traditional tokenized rolled assets. So on the Defi side, we're going to be supporting money markets. Like I mentioned, there will be a reservoir money market where you can vent our USD with a variety of different collateral backings.
00:13:43.588 - 00:14:17.420, Speaker A: We'll be supporting liquidity pools. You'll also be able to borrow against different LP positions and money markets that we're building. We'll be integrating with a bunch of different exchanges and more wallets and protocols as well there. And on the renewable asset side, we can support a variety of different assets. At the start we'll have t bills and this delta neutral product, but we can add through government support a variety of different assets to keep growing the balance sheet there. This just talks a little bit more about the products. I sort of went through it here briefly, but I feel like this could be a good point to open up for questions.
00:14:17.420 - 00:14:49.830, Speaker A: If anyone has any questions on all ears. No questions right now, I think everybody. Absolutely. Thank you everyone. Really appreciate the time and best of luck with the rest of the ECC. Thanks.
