00:00:00.200 - 00:00:32.606, Speaker A: Right. So let's begin this talk. Okay, so, as was introduced today, we'll be trying to answer this sort of fundamental question. How do we construct weekly, any weekly and feasible semi definite program and bad projection of the positive semi definite code. This is joint work between myself and Professor Gabor Pataky from the University of North Carolina. So, to begin, let's actually answer the question, what is weakened feasibility in semi definite programming? And introduce a few preliminaries. So let's say we're given a collection of symmetric matrices a one through am.
00:00:32.606 - 00:01:50.114, Speaker A: Then we can define the linear operator a from the set of symmetric matrices sn two vectors in Rm by simply taking a of x to be the usual vector of inner products of AI with x, where here we understand this bullet is simply the trace of AI times x. So with this linear operator defined, we can define the usual semi definite feasibility problem as a of x is equal to b for some right hand side b and x positive semidefinite. From here on, we'll describe this problem as p or the primal problem. So it's easy enough to see that if we have a solution to this linear system of equality constraints, call it x naught, then, if we define the affine space h to be the x naught plus the linear span of the null space of a, then the feasible set of p is simply the intersection of this affine space h plus intersected with the semi definite cone, as we can see by this cute little diagram below. All right, so with this in mind, we'll introduce a little bit of vocabulary. We say that the problem p is strongly infeasible if there's a positive distance between this affine space h and the positive semidefinite cone, and otherwise, we say it's weakly infeasible. So, to see what a weakly infeasible SDP looks like, let's consider the classical example described here.
00:01:50.114 - 00:03:07.814, Speaker A: Let's say we want to find a two by two positive semidefinite matrix such that the upper left hand corner is zero and the off diagonal elements are one. Well, in this case, if x satisfies these equality constraints, then we know x has to be of the form described here, with zero in the upper left hand corner and one on the off diagonals and the lower right hand corner being free. So clearly this problem is infeasible, because if we look at the two by two minors of this guy, we can see that no positive semi definite matrix can satisfy this formula. However, if we simply switch this zero to be one over x 22 and make x two too large, then we can find matrices of this form which actually pass arbitrarily close to the affine space described by the linear constraints here in our positive semidefinite. So to visualize this, if we fix x one two to be one, and look at the set of positive semi definite two by two matrices, and that set is described by this blue hyperbola and the region above it. Meanwhile, the linear solution space to the simple example here is simply described by the horizontal axis here. So, as we can see, as x 22 gets arbitrarily large, the affine space h passes arbitrarily close to without ever intersecting the semi definite cone.
00:03:07.814 - 00:03:56.944, Speaker A: This is sort of the usual visualization which we want to imagine when we look at weakened feasibility. So maybe I'll pause at this point if there are any questions. If not, then let's look at the main idea of our work. That is, we want to express this affine space h in two different ways. So the first way with these linear equality constraints allows us to say that if we express the h in this way, then we have a one is equal to this matrix here, and a two is this matrix here. And so any x which has a zero inner product with a one, obviously a zero in the upper left hand corner, and a non zero inner product with a two is non zero in the off diagonal element. And so this representation certifies infeasibility of that simple example we saw above.
00:03:56.944 - 00:04:47.254, Speaker A: Meanwhile, an alternative representation for h is using this sort of generator representation where we look at x two of this form plus the linear span of x one with this form described here. And as we saw in the previous slide, this representation of the affine space age actually certifies the problems not strong in feasibility, since we can make lambda arbitrarily large and switch the upper left hand corner of the corresponding matrix generated to be one over lambda to get a positive semi definite matrix which arbitrarily close to h. Yes, it looks like there is. You can pause it. Nice. Okay, so in this case, one representation here certifies the problems in feasibility. Meanwhile, the other representation certifies it's not strong in feasibility.
00:04:47.254 - 00:05:33.834, Speaker A: So at this point, if we may be sort of squinted at these a one a two and x one x two, we would see that they share some sort of common echelon structure. And in fact, we'll see later on in this work that this is not unique to this example. And in fact, any weakly infeasible SDP can sort of be untangled into this visualizing this echelon structure using a only elementary row, sorry, elementary invertible row operations and congruence transformations. So this sort of highlights the main idea of our work. Maybe. Before I proceed, let's see if there are any questions on this simple example. If there are not, then let's continue.
00:05:33.834 - 00:07:08.864, Speaker A: So we may ask, why do we study weakened feasibility classically? As we saw in the simple example, these problems arise when the affine space h passes arbitrarily close to, without ever intersecting the semi definite cone, or in other words, h is an asymptote of the semidefinite cone. However, in modern literature, weakly infeasible sdps come up as difficult sdps which are typically identified as being incorrectly feasible by state of the art solvers such as MoSec or SDPA GMP. They come up as infeasible and ill posed sdps which exhibit poor performance in applying interior point methods, that is, interior point methods which rely on the distance to feasibility in its convergence guarantees, don't actually have any guarantees for these problems, because the distance to feasibility for weekly and feasible sdps is zero. They come up as non closed projections of the positive semi definite cone in which the vector b lies in the closure of the operator a on the semidefinite cone without actually lying in the operation on the semi definite cone. And these were studied earlier last year from a viewpoint of algebraic geometry by Professor John Foles. They come up as instances in certain polynomial optimization problems. In particular, we'll be looking at one specific example that comes from minimizing the famous Molzkin polynomial, and obviously there are many more such interesting references, but we'll include those simply in the references list at the end of this talk, just to save some time.
00:07:08.864 - 00:08:13.164, Speaker A: So now let's proceed on to our main result, that is, characterizing weak and feasibility. To do that, we will start by asking a motivating question. That is, we ask what is the feasibility status of be, that is, this big example here? Well, any answer that you give me should basically provide a certificate of such a status. For example, if the problem was feasible, it would be sufficient to exhibit x, which is four by four positive semi definite, and satisfies these equality constraints. Before we answer this question, however, let's look at some motivation from basic linear algebra. We know that if we have a linear system of equality constraints AI transpose x is equal to bi, then we know this problem is infeasible if and only if we can produce a row echelon form through elementary reformulation in which one of the constraints is of the form zero transpose x is equal to one. In such a case, this constraint two certifies infeasibility of the original problem one.
00:08:13.164 - 00:09:24.104, Speaker A: And so if we append to any linear system of equality constraints, this allows us to generate any infeasible system of linear equalities up to some reformulation, of course. Now our goal is to basically sort of massage this and find a similar characterization for weakly infeasible semi definite programs. To follow this recipe, obviously we want analogs to elementary row operations and a row echelon form for semi definite programs. To see how we would do that, now let's look at the first of these ideas. That is, we allow ourselves to reformulate p with a set of invertible elementary operations, we can exchange two of these row constraints AI bi aj bj we can add a multiple of one constraint to another, and we can apply a suitable invertible t congruence transformation to each of these AI's. So clearly, none of these operations change the geometry of the problem. That is, if the original problem was weakly infeasible, then any invertible elementary reformulation will be weakly and feasible.
00:09:24.104 - 00:10:19.444, Speaker A: So this is sort of the analog to what we saw as elementary row operations before. Now, to extend the notion of an echelon form, that is, a row echelon form for semi definite programs, let's recall what that would look like for vectors. Let's say in four reals. We're here. Now, if a one, a two, and a three are in this form where the blue blocks are arbitrary and the red blocks are positive, in this case one, then we can say that a one through a three is in a row echelon form. Similarly, we say that symmetric matrices a one through AK are in semi definite echelon form with a structure provided by index blocks q one through Qk, which are simply a disjoint subset of the indices one through n. That is, each one of these is a subset and they do not intersect if it is of the following form, that is, in this case.
00:10:19.444 - 00:11:40.510, Speaker A: Now, the red blocks are not just positive, but they are positive definite diagonal, and the blue blocks can be made arbitrary, and the indices of the blue blocks correspond to the indices of the red blocks from the previous elements in this sequence. So we can see that in this particular picture, the semi definite echelon form has this nice sort of staircasing structure, which is sort of analogous to the row echelon form described before. But to be a little bit more general, we allow ourselves to apply permutation to the columns of any of to the columns of each of these AI's. So maybe at this point I'll pause once again to see if there are any questions on this definition before we proceed. If there are no questions, then let's continue. So the main result of our work shows that in fact p is actually weakly infeasible if and only if it has a reformulation of the following form where a one through eight k plus one prime is in semi definite echelon form, and the corresponding right hand side is zero for the first k constraints and negative one for the k plus first constraint. However, obviously this original reformulation doesn't allow us to certify anything about the weak infeasibility status of the problem.
00:11:40.510 - 00:13:08.404, Speaker A: So we need something just a little bit more and in fact we say that there is an additional semi definite echelon form x one through Excel plus one, which satisfies the following equality constraints. It is if we look carefully at this, we can see that since xl plus one is a solution to the reformulated system of equations and x one through excel are in the null space of this reformulated operator, then xl plus one plus the linear span of x one through xl turns out to be a subspace of the solution space to the linear system of equations in the reformulation. So maybe I'll pause just again for a second to take in this theorem. If there are any questions or clarifications, this would be a good time to ask. All right, if not, then maybe we'll continue then. So if we look at the feasibility of the big example which we saw before, then after a reformulation of the problem, we obtain a one through a three prime in the following form, with a right hand side, b prime being zero zero and negative two. Meanwhile, we can find x one through x three in semi definite echelon form of the following structure described here.
00:13:08.404 - 00:14:26.424, Speaker A: So in this case we may ask how exactly do these two certificates certify the status of weakened feasibility? For the big example, and to see that more carefully, let's look at this part by part. So to see that the problem is actually weakly infeasible, we will use the first certificate, that is this first echelon form, semi definite echelon form, a one prime through a three prime. So obviously if there was a solution x which was feasible in the problem, that is, it is positive semi definite, and satisfies a zero inner product with a one prime, a zero inner product with a two prime, and a negative two inner product with a three prime, then the first constraint would certify that the first row of x would have to be equal to zero. And so, by the shape of a two prime, and the fact that x is positive semi definitely, we would have that the second row of x is also zero, since the right hand side was zero for this constraint as well. Similarly, by this sort of inductive argument, we can see that a three primes shape and the fact that x is positive semi definite implies that this constraint has to be non negative. However, as we recall, the corresponding right hand side is negative two, which leads us to the contradiction. So this shows that the problem is infeasible.
00:14:26.424 - 00:15:37.544, Speaker A: Now let's see how we can use the second semi definite echelon form to certify the problem is not strongly infeasible. So meanwhile, to see the problem is not strongly infeasible, we can allow ourselves to permute the columns x one through x three, sort of to write this structure in a sort of more pleasing to look at way. And from here on out, the goal is going to be to construct a positive definite matrix which is arbitrarily close to the linear solution space of the semi definite program reformulation. To do that, as we would usually in analysis, we start off with a small perturbation on the four four block of a zero matrix, and our goal is to sort of build this positive definite certificate from here on out. To do that, we're going to leverage the special fact that x three plus the linear span of x one and x two is a subspace of the linear space of solutions to the reformulation. And so we're going to start off by appending x three to this guy. Once we do that, we see now that not only is the lower one by one block of this matrix positive definite, but in fact we grew this to the lower two by two block.
00:15:37.544 - 00:16:40.584, Speaker A: So maybe by the structure of x one and x two, it seems apparent what we should do next. But so, in fact, by an argument involving Schur's complement or simply the definition of positive definiteness, we can see that appending a large enough multiple of x two to this matrix allows us to construct a matrix which is now positive definite in the lower three by three region. So once again we proceed inductively, and now we can append a large enough multiple of x one to make the entire matrix positive definite. And the most important fact here to note is that after this first appendage, that is, when we add x three, the new matrix is epsilon, close to the reformulated affine space h prime, that is x, such that a prime of x is equal to b prime. And so we're done here. We've constructed an epsilon close positive definite matrix to this reformulated affine space, and so the problem is not strongly feasible. Maybe I'll pause here if there are any questions.
00:16:40.584 - 00:17:36.603, Speaker A: Okay, if there are no questions now, let's continue the next section. So the next section of this talk is the idea of how do we use this now echelon form to generate any instance of a weekly and feasible semi definite program. So up until now, this has been a pretty difficult question to answer in its entirety. I mean, there have been methods to generate subclasses of weekly and feasible sdps. However, since our echelon form describes any weekly infeasible SDP, we hope to leverage it to sort of solve this problem in its entirety. To do that, we'll basically sketch the main algorithm of our work. So by our echelon form, we will need to construct this sequence, these two certificates, one which will certify the problems in feasibility, and one which will certify the problems not strong in feasibility.
00:17:36.603 - 00:18:33.574, Speaker A: So, to begin, let's choose two semi definite echelon forms. Once we do this, obviously there's no special structure in between a one through a, k plus one, and x one through xl plus one. And so our goal is we're going to slightly perturb these guys and adjust them into a satisfying a set of these base equations, if we can satisfy these base equations in their generality. That is, if we can solve this sort of bilinear system of equations with some structural restrictions on a I's and xi's nXjs. I guess then we can sort of look at the theorem one and see that after this point we have constructed a weakly infeasible SDP, which is of a smaller size. That is, we only have k plus one is equal to m in this particular case. So obviously after this point, we can add additional constraints to make a larger weakly infusible SDP.
00:18:33.574 - 00:19:13.460, Speaker A: And so that is, step four, we can add these additional linear equality constraints. So the most difficult step in this algorithm is simply solving this bilinear system and its generality. But since this is a shorter talk at this point, I'll say that there is a way to do this such that we simultaneously will be adjusting certain elements of AI and x one through excel plus one. And that basically concludes the algorithm. It's just these simple four steps. But since this is a shorter talk, I guess we'll wrap this section up here and maybe I'll see if there are any questions at this point. Okay, thank you.
00:19:13.460 - 00:20:59.494, Speaker A: Are there any questions or comments? Okay, so, proceeding on to the last section of this talk, we look at how does weakened feasibility come up in polynomial optimization? There's one theme we've noticed at this point is that we've had to reformulate our problem in order to construct these certificates of weakened feasibility. However, we note that we ask the question, that is, do we always have to do this reformulation step? Well, in fact, sometimes we don't. If we consider minimizing the non convex Molzkin polynomial, f of x y is of this form here, then by applying a degree r sum of squares relaxation to the problem, we can write this as an SDP in its standard form, where z is now simply a vector of monomials up to some degree r. That is, r is at least half the degree of the original polynomial, which was six. So, if we carry out this relaxation, then it's well known, obviously, that the Molzkin polynomial is famously one of the non negative polynomials, which is not a sum of squares. And so each of these SDPs is now infeasible. However, if we were to just look at the constraint set for the SDP in its standard form, we can recover a one through a five, for example, in the case in this particular example, and x one through x three of this form here, which are exactly the certificates that we were looking for, we found a one through a five, which certifies the problems infeasibility with a right hand side of zero, zero and negative three here, and x one through x three, which certifies the problem is not strong infeasibility.
00:20:59.494 - 00:21:49.654, Speaker A: So, since we found these certificates, we know that each of these relaxations is weakly infeasible, which perhaps matches with what we would expect, since we know that we can perturb the coefficients of the Moltzkin polynomial arbitrarily small, such that we can recover a sum of squares polynomial. That is, the upshot of this is, if we were to apply solvers to minimizing the moldskin polynomial, we would recover solutions, typically due to the numerical imprecision of computer solvers that are arbitrarily close to the moldskin polynomial. And finally, I'll pause here one more time and see if there are any questions. If there are not, then conclude with a few relevant papers of interest and otherwise. Thank you so much for listening to this talk.
