00:00:00.360 - 00:00:47.280, Speaker A: This episode is brought to you by Paraswap, the leading aggregator to find best prices across various Dexs. You'll hear more about them later in the show. All right, everyone, we are back with another episode of Empire. We got myself today, no Santi, and we got Joe Lalouze, who is the head of Coinbase Cloud. He was previously the founder of Grand street, which was a marketplace that was acquired by Etsy. He ran innovation at Etsy and then in 2018, launched Bison Trails, which I remember talking to, I think your co founder back in 2018, right, when you guys had just launched, I was like, I don't understand this business at all, but it sounds really, really cool. And the more that the space has grown, the more I realized how many years ahead of the trend you guys were.
00:00:47.280 - 00:01:02.674, Speaker A: And then recently, I think about a year ago, February 2021, Joe and the Bison trails team got acquired by Coinbase, and Joe is now running Coinbase Cloud. So we're going to talk all about that and his thoughts on the industry. So, Joe, welcome to empire, my friend.
00:01:02.974 - 00:01:17.154, Speaker B: Awesome. Thanks. Thanks so much. Thanks so much for the intro. And I'm super pumped to be here. I appreciate the kind words. It's always weird to hear your own intro and be like, oh, I guess I did kind of do some of those things.
00:01:17.154 - 00:01:26.856, Speaker B: And, yeah, I mean, the space has changed like crazy over the last little while, but super excited to talk about kind of what's going on, what we're excited about, and. And hopefully put together a good show.
00:01:27.000 - 00:01:58.964, Speaker A: Awesome. Awesome. Let's do it. All right, so I think we need to start just actually at the top, which is when people think of Coinbase, they think of three things, probably. They think of the retail wallet, which is where most people probably bought their first bitcoin and continue to buy their crypto. They think of maybe the institutional business with, like, Coinbase prime, and you guys acquired, like, Zappo and turned that into Coinbase custody and acquired Tagomi and Coinbase prime and have built a really, really strong institutional business. And then recently, obviously, you guys launched Coinbase NFT, which you guys did an amazing job with that it looks a lot like Instagram.
00:01:58.964 - 00:02:20.338, Speaker A: And I sent this tweet out that it looks like a kind of web3 version of Instagram. And I think a lot of folks like that. But now you guys have this Coinbase cloud business that I really transparently don't know much about. And that's what I want to dig in to with you on this podcast. So can you just give us a high level on what is Coinbase cloud. And almost just like, what is the problem that you guys are solving here?
00:02:20.516 - 00:02:39.886, Speaker B: Yeah, you bet. I love that framing also. That's exactly right. Coinbase's mission is all about increasing economic freedom around the world. And so we've taken a few different strategic approaches to that. So I love that you said people still go to Coinbase to buy their first crypto, their first bitcoin. It's amazing.
00:02:39.886 - 00:03:10.138, Speaker B: It's fantastic. And we have our wallet product and now we launched this NFT Marketplace, which we're obviously super pumped about. The NFT space has been insane in the last year, year and a half. So it's been really cool to see all the new folks that are onboarding to crypto that way. Coinbase Cloud is our developer platform. It's a suite of products, infrastructure, APIs, SDKs and developer products to help people build in the crypto and web3 space. It's awesome.
00:03:10.138 - 00:04:01.954, Speaker B: I'm really excited to be heading up Coinbase cloud because this is really a continuation. You had mentioned earlier on in the intro that I had started this company with my co founder called Bison Trails, and our mission was very similar. It was all about enabling participation and helping builders build in the space. Coinbase Cloud is really a continuation of that mission and that vision. The idea is we have not just the cloud team, but at Coinbase, we have this view of crypto that it's going to be, you know, the modern application platform, the modern software platform for builders. And we recognize pretty early on in particular before joining Coinbase, that building in the crypto space is just incredibly difficult. And you can talk to a lot of different builders in the space.
00:04:01.954 - 00:04:23.470, Speaker B: And it's difficult for a few different reasons. One of the biggest reasons is blockchains are at least the ones we mostly work on are public goods. Um, they're sort of maintained by large collectives or large groups of people all over the world. Um, they're decentralized, which means that it's really hard to control them. It's really hard to, which is a good thing, right. We want that they're decentralized. It's really hard to control them.
00:04:23.470 - 00:05:09.940, Speaker B: But when it's hard to control something, it's also really hard to build on top of it. So imagine, you know, you're, you're trying to, uh, build a building on top of a ground that's like constantly shifting and constantly moving and constantly changing. And that's kind of how we view the crypto and blockchain space. So blockchains are going through upgrades and changing. And you have these incredible builders that are trying to build products and services on top of them. While those things are changing, our entire vision here is how do we make it easier for people to build in the space and participate in chains? We've launched a few products that enable us to do that, but that's really the foundation of Coinbase cloud. You can think of us as maybe the, maybe today, the fourth pillar within Coinbase.
00:05:09.940 - 00:05:53.774, Speaker B: So like you said, there's the retail app where people buy. There's the institutional product where large money managers and funds use the products and services like prime to trade or buy or sell crypto. And we have the NFT marketplace, which we launched, and everyone's super excited about that. And then we have our developer products. So it's all about helping developers, new developers, existing developers. This includes whether you're two folks at a hackathon trying to get started, or you're a pretty large scale, maybe a neo bank or a fintech, and you want to add crypto products or services to your offering, we work with a whole bunch of different companies to be able to help them do that.
00:05:54.154 - 00:06:23.958, Speaker A: When I think about, there are a couple of businesses that come to mind here as an analogy. If you hear about the Collison brothers talking about stripe, it's like the reason they succeeded is you could add seven lines of code to a site to handle payments, right? And then you think about. So stripe comes to mind. Shopify actually comes to mind as well, maybe as a business to compare to. Someone like Snowflake comes to mind. Something like AWS comes to mind. So how do you guys think about just almost like what this business is analogous to in the web two world?
00:06:24.126 - 00:07:00.386, Speaker B: Yeah, totally. And it's a great question. So maybe I'll come clean on something here. While I don't love using this for that sort of analogy, they do help people frame the thinking around it, even early on in the early bison trails days. And still with Coinbase cloud, we do talk about building AWS for crypto. When you use these examples like Stripe or Shopify, they're also really great examples. It's taking something which was previously quite difficult, like adding payments to your product or building a website.
00:07:00.386 - 00:07:49.434, Speaker B: 20 years ago, building a website was really, really hard. I know today it sounds like it's probably the easiest thing on the planet. You click a couple buttons, boom, you have a website. But it was really, really difficult. And similarly, we're trying to take participating and building on top of blockchains and in crypto, much, much easier we talk about it internally, mostly about how would we build AWS for crypto. The thing that's really important to remember here is AWS is now, don't quote me on the time here, but about 20 years old, ballpark, maybe a little bit less than 20 years old. These types of products that are the underlying infrastructure for making it easier for people to build in web two or build products in web two, take a long time to come to fruition.
00:07:49.434 - 00:08:33.124, Speaker B: Even something like stripe or something like Shopify. We forget that before being able to build stripe or before being able to build shopify, there's this entire series of infrastructure, lower level infrastructure companies that existed that helped power those. I don't know what Shopify is built on top of, but a lot of cloud based infrastructure supports modern applications. One of the common analogies is like Netflix runs on AWS. We have Netflix. A lot of people use Netflix, we know what that is. And not a lot of people think that there was a whole bunch of enablers behind the ability to launch and build streaming web video.
00:08:33.124 - 00:09:01.116, Speaker B: We think of ourselves still. Those early phases of AWS. When AWS launched, there's two products. When they first launched, pretty early on, there was one was EC two, which was this ability to basically launch a server on the Internet. We think about our node product in that way. How can you launch a blockchain server? There's a few different applications for that. One is staking, and we can talk a little bit more about staking if you want, afterwards.
00:09:01.116 - 00:09:38.384, Speaker B: The other is really connecting and receiving and transmitting data on blockchain, submitting transactions, reading transactions, reading contract data. It's the connective tissue of the crypto space. The second product at AWS was s three. And it's like a storage product, very similar. These underlying pieces of technology. Now, if you look at a product like AWS, they have 5100, I actually don't know, but 100 or plus products and services that builders can go and use. And they're all sort of abstractions.
00:09:38.384 - 00:10:08.710, Speaker B: And we use the word composable in crypto a lot. They're all sort of abstractions and composable on top of each other, but they're these centralized entities. And so that's how we think about our positioning right now. It's still very early in crypto. I know even bison trails is now something like four years old. And cloud, the work we've been doing with cloud is dates around then, but it's still very, very early. So we're in those early phases and we're building alongside other developers, and we're learning from them.
00:10:08.710 - 00:10:57.238, Speaker B: We're understanding their problems and what difficulties they have building in the space and then building products to help serve that. So more pointedly you'd ask, what problem are we solving? One of the problems that we found, and I actually kind of like this bit of the story, we started trying to solve our own problems, which is, in my opinion, some of the best ways to build a product or build a company. And one of the problems we found was in particular in Ethereum, it was really difficult to launch a node, make sure that that node was synced. We make sure that it was at the tip of the chain, make sure that you could process information and connect to other nodes. That actually took a tremendous amount of time. And now there's a few products and services that allow you to do that a little bit better, which is great. That was how we started thinking about our business and our platform.
00:10:57.406 - 00:11:41.404, Speaker A: It's an interesting strategy because when I think about some of the other folks that you guys compete with, you know, some of them have actually launched their own chains, right? Some of them have, instead of launching their own chains, they've gotten very close with or very kind of synced up with some of the other l one s as well and kind of put their foot in the ground and said, this is the l one that we're partnering with. So some have launched their own l one, some have kind of partnered with L1 S. And you guys took a different strategy and said, we're not going to build our own blockchain, instead we're just going to build on top of some of this infrastructure and make it easier for folks to build this on top of the infrastructure. Am I getting that right? Is that the strategy? And if so, why is that the strategy? Why not go launch coinbase chain or why not go buddy up with like avalanche or something like that?
00:11:42.104 - 00:12:47.978, Speaker B: Yeah, I think there's probably sort of, yeah, that has been our strategy and we've been pretty successful at deploying infrastructure and helping folks build and stake and run nodes on a whole variety of chains. And so I think we support like a little over 35 right now, which is pretty significant, right? It's not one, we're not just supporting Ethereum. We're not just supporting avalanche or solana or something like that. We're supporting all of them. And I'd say there's two main reasons why we decided to do that. The first is we wanted to, we believed that the best way to engage the entire developer community was to stay pretty neutral from a L1 perspective. So to look at each of these blockchains and say any one of these has an opportunity to be a major chain, any one of these, each of these chains, I should say, have their costs and their benefits.
00:12:47.978 - 00:13:46.064, Speaker B: So you can look at just even. It's kind of a bit in the conversation these days in crypto, like the speed and transaction processing speed of something like a Solana versus the developer community that's on Ethereum. And we wanted to make sure that we stayed relatively neutral. So we were thinking about how can we help any of these chains continue to grow, and how can we help builders that want to build on Ethereum or Solana, or avalanche or whatever it is, help them grow, which was important to us. This is about the ethos of the space, making sure that we actually support decentralization instead of being a forcing function for people to just build on Ethereum, or just build on any l two as well. The second was really about a thesis of the future. And I'd say this is more of an opinion as opposed to an ethos driven approach.
00:13:46.064 - 00:14:40.024, Speaker B: When we started building the company and the platform, we had this belief. And this is, I'll give like a little kind of. I don't know if I've actually ever talked about this publicly before, so this is cool. Using some of our experience in web two, we had this belief that all software will be crypto software in the future, and that all modern software will use a whole variety of different crypto protocols and crypto chains to help achieve their goals. So this could be something that's, you know, one chain could be specifically focused on payments, one could be focused on transactions, one could be focused on data. And we're actually seeing that come to fruition. So there's a whole bunch of l one s that are being built that are, you know, I won't call them application specific, but maybe more modular than some of the generalized change that we've seen.
00:14:40.024 - 00:15:34.850, Speaker B: We had this thesis that modern software, over the next ten to 15 years, will start to move in that direction, where a piece of software, an application, let's just say like a user app, let's say the future of Web three, social is actually going to incorporate like 1520 different protocols as part of its underlying software stack. By going and supporting all of these different chains, we sort of put a stake in the ground behind, no pun intended, put a stake in the ground behind our thesis that we're going to exist in a multi chain world, that there isn't just going to be one chain where people develop. There isn't just going to be a bitcoin as a store of value. There isn't just going to be an Ethereum as a smart contract platform. We're going to see a lot of them. They're going to have different benefits, and developers have the opportunity to pick and choose which ones they want to use in their applications. And so that was a lot of our strategy was like, let's go wide.
00:15:34.850 - 00:16:24.618, Speaker B: Let's make sure we support them so that as this comes to fruition, we're there and we can help people build. And I'll say four years later, we're looking at some of the hottest topics right now are kind of like cross chain, cross chain interoperability, even things like staking across chains and how do we move assets between them. And if you distill crypto down to the ability for computers to kind of permissionlessly and trustlessly communicate with each other, transfer value, that's a really, really important concept. And so this was kind of like taking a step back and saying, all right, where do we see the world of crypto in ten years? And it was pretty obvious to us that if you looked at any old web two software, it was always, they were built using like 15 different protocols or different sort of pieces of technology. And we imagine the same thing for crypto. And so that's why we kind of went in that direction.
00:16:24.786 - 00:16:56.540, Speaker A: Yeah, in media, there's a long history of like basically bundling and unbundling. And you see it with these big companies get built and then creators break off and things like substack get built. And now people are bundling the substacks. In technology, you actually see the same thing, bundling and unbundling. In web two. You see the protocols come, you've got this open free Internet in the 1990s, and you've got HTTP and SMTP. And then basically someone like Google comes along and takes SMTP and puts Gmail on top of it and Microsoft puts outlook on top of it.
00:16:56.540 - 00:17:30.224, Speaker A: And now you've got only two email providers. In crypto, you're seeing the same thing. You've got these open free protocols. But then if you read the moxie piece back what moxie do founded signal, he's very kind of, I don't know if he's against this, but I think he calls it out as a flag. He says that Web three infrastructure is starting to centralize. You've got things like, I think he was trying to call an NFT image, but really he realized it was just like opensea API, I'm pretty sure. So what are your thoughts on moxie? Someone like Moxie and just this overall thought of great.
00:17:30.224 - 00:17:41.136, Speaker A: For the last decade we have this very decentralized nature and it's really the ethos of crypto. But now what's happening is we're going back to just centralizing everything under these centralized infrastructure providers.
00:17:41.280 - 00:18:19.292, Speaker B: Yeah, so that's exactly right. I think so. I did read the piece and I think it was something along the lines of he was trying to get an NFT and realized it was just hosted on an s three bucket, which is even worse than just, which is essentially like I look at an NFT and it's actually just on Amazon. Exactly right. I would say that when I read that piece I was like, this is really helpful. So you kind of ask my thoughts on someone like Moxie. I actually think it's very, very important for people in the space, in crypto, outside of crypto as they come in, as they explore to call these things out.
00:18:19.292 - 00:18:53.304, Speaker B: Because I think the best way that we can build better protocols, better decentralized technology is that we're honest with ourselves about where we're making these trade offs. So there's always going to be this trade off of I kind of mentioned before, building in crypto is kind of like building on moving ground. And so the more centralized it is, the more stable the ground is. And the more decentralized it is, the less stable the ground is. And we're going to constantly make trade offs on time to market the type of product, what the product is trying to achieve. And we're going to make trade offs on decentralization. We're going to make trade offs on availability, on speed.
00:18:53.304 - 00:19:46.360, Speaker B: And so it's really important as people come into the space to acknowledge that and say like, hey, I tried to use this NFT. I looked it up and it was like just being hosted on s three. I will say that I think that that is important to call out, but I also think it's a bit of hyperbole. There's lots of NFT projects that are actually using decentralized storage as a means for supporting their assets. So you can look at protocols like Arweave or ipfs that are being used on the backend instead of centralized services. So to the extent that like that specific example was like a call out of like, hey, some projects are doing this, I think it's unfair to say all of them. There's also a trend in the NFT space right now to do what's called, I'm actually maybe going to butcher what it's called, but it's like the on chain, basically, like on chain images.
00:19:46.360 - 00:20:32.964, Speaker B: And so they'll render svgs on chain, or they'll store even the pixels or the data for the pixels on chain. So those are not, they're not ephemeral, they exist forever. So I'd say it's really important to call it out and call a spade of spade and figure out where we can do better and where what we're doing is good enough. The other thing I'd say is that we, this kind of aligns with our vision. It's like, how do we make sure that we help NFT builders, for instance, use things like ipfs, or use things like Arweave? And how do we make sure we're making it easy for them to either use APIs to do this, or to run infrastructure on these protocols to be able to do this. And the more we can support that.
00:20:33.264 - 00:20:46.924, Speaker A: You see something like Arweave and ipfs, not as a competitor, not as a kind of decentralized competitor to this more like centralized cloud provider, but more as someone who's a partner who you're plugging into.
00:20:47.084 - 00:21:17.526, Speaker B: Absolutely. And so from even the earliest stages of. So there's one other thing that's really important about this, which is switching costs. So from the earliest stages of our product and our platform, we've always worked with protocol teams. In fact, we're actually quite close with a lot of different protocol teams, including the Arweave team, ipfs, and a lot of the other smart contracting platforms, other l one S. And our goal was always to help them. It was let's take a partnership approach, let's make it easier for people to build in the space.
00:21:17.526 - 00:22:10.248, Speaker B: So they're definitely not competitors. We view them as partners, and we can make it easy for somebody to maybe use both ipfs and arweave without having to spend a ton of time focusing on any one of them. There's a world where we build a storage API and it actually decentralizes across both those protocols without a developer having to think about that. You get back to this bundling and unbundling. There's a world where we make it easy to interact with different protocols, and that would be considered a form of bundling. But the alternative is you spend weeks and weeks dealing with one protocol that's moving around, and that's quite difficult. The thing that I will say that I actually think is very different from web two, that is in web3, is that the better these protocols are built, the easier it is to switch between them, and that's where you have to build the absolute best product and platform.
00:22:10.248 - 00:22:55.520, Speaker B: So I'll maybe just poke in on that a little bit. In web two, if you're building your entire application on closed stack, it can be quite difficult to switch. If you build everything you've ever done that's on one company stack, like AWS for instance, it can be actually pretty hard to decide you're going to pick up and move your company to GPU GCP. And we actually saw this in the, I'm going to say like early two thousands. A lot of companies that had built their own data centers were all of a sudden switching to cloud because they realized it was more cost effective and more scalable. It took them a long time, some still haven't even done it. I'd say the majority of growth in cloud computing was from upstarts like capturing new players.
00:22:55.520 - 00:23:44.674, Speaker B: And there's always people that are switching in web3 that switching cost in theory should be much lower. So for me to be able to move my storage from ipfs to arweave should be pretty easy. Which means that if ipfs goes down or all of a sudden governance around ipfs or Filecoin or something isn't working the way that it should be working, I should be able to move to arweave pretty easily. And I hate singling out two protocols. There's actually quite a few storage protocols, but move to arweave or one of the other ones as well. I actually think this is a really key component of web3 that maybe isn't as obvious today because we're still in the earliest building phases. People aren't like, oh my God, I need to switch to a different protocol, I need to switch to a different backend.
00:23:44.674 - 00:24:11.844, Speaker B: For us, it's like, how do we make that as easy as possible? How do we make it so that a developer can see, hey, here's an ipfs node, here's an Arweave node, here's an API that actually can automatically distribute your storage between Arweave, ipfs, whatever storage. Know any of the other storage protocols? And that to me is sort of where the magic lies, right? Where we actually add value by making it more decentralized in that way.
00:24:11.924 - 00:24:58.006, Speaker A: Yeah. Are these. It's interesting, like switching costs. I think about switching costs a lot in DeFi because basically what Defi has enabled is like, it's such an interesting user experience because you can just like, moving from like aave to compound is seamless, right? Moving from like uniswap to sushiswap is seamless, but that actually is like not amazing for the business model. So then you have to start doing things like maybe playing with tokenomics and introducing things like ve for tokenomics to try to lock people up for longer. I've never thought about that with b two b businesses though, right? And I've never thought about how if we wanted to move from HubSpot to Salesforce, or if we wanted to move from AWS to azure. Right now the switching costs are incredibly high, right.
00:24:58.006 - 00:25:22.220, Speaker A: It's like moving from for retail, it's like my bank of, uh, my bank of America account to my Wells Fargo account or something like that. The switching costs are really high in b two b crypto, uh, products. I've never actually thought about those switching costs also being really low. So if you're someone like actually an arweave or an ipfs or storage or filecoin, how do you increase the moat of your business and just improve it?
00:25:22.412 - 00:26:04.684, Speaker B: Yeah, I think so. The product person in me actually loves this because it starts to beg of the question. There's this old adage in software development that the best product doesn't always win. And a lot of times the marketing around it, the go to market who you can lock in is often a predictor of who wins in a market. And I actually think web3 breaks that down in an interesting way. It really depends on how you think about these protocols, if they are businesses. And what it actually does is pushes the community, the protocol foundations, the teams that are building them to continue to innovate.
00:26:04.684 - 00:26:50.394, Speaker B: My view on this is it puts all these protocols and all these builders in a position where they actually have to do focus on the product and the experience and continue to innovate because if not, people will switch because it's relatively inexpensive to switch. I view this as over the next ten years, we're going to see people continuing to build and continuing to innovate. It breaks away from this innovator's dilemma where you get locked in and then you can sit back, rest on your laurels and be like, well, these people can't move. It's too expensive for them to move, so we don't have to do anything. Instead, protocol teams, I'll actually expand that. Not just protocol teams. Everyone in crypto needs to sort of continuously be innovating to make sure that they're driving value.
00:26:50.394 - 00:27:20.110, Speaker B: And I'm not talking about driving synthetic value to people that are holding your token token. I'm talking about like driving value to the ecosystem around the protocol that you've built. And I think that's super, super powerful as far as the business models are concerned. I think the jury's still out on what exactly the business model is for protocol. If we look at something like Ethereum and we see transaction fees as like a corollary for a business model, it looks like an amazing business. Right. Transaction fees are pretty high.
00:27:20.110 - 00:28:08.832, Speaker B: People aren't super excited about it, but clearly Ethereum is driving value to some folks. And so if we can kind of find that balance where protocols are using the. I'll just call it revenue, even though we're not calling it revenue, protocols are using the revenue that they're generating by providing value to the people building on top of them, and use that to continue to innovate on their protocols, make sure that they're better, make sure that they're faster, make sure that they provide more features. I think we're going to see an even more explosive pace of innovation in crypto over the next ten years, which, again, is mind blowing, because the one thing I have said is crypto innovates so much faster than any other industry I've ever worked in. It's exciting for me. I look at that and I'm like, what a place to be. What a time to be alive, you know?
00:28:08.888 - 00:28:40.610, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, definitely. So one thing about just really fast innovation, though, um, is that things start to break. And that's what we've started to see over the last, like, 24 months. It feels like, uh, maybe ending in November, uh, the last six months. People feel a little worn out. And like, we talk about this on the podcast all the time, like, narrative exhaustion. But start, you know, going back to November, maybe looking 18 months, uh, in history, uh, you know, maybe starting with, like, defi summer, let's call it through the end of last year, just innovation was insane, right? The Defi protocols really took off.
00:28:40.610 - 00:29:10.868, Speaker A: The amount of capital that flowed into them was insane. NFT markets obviously went crazy. Facebook changed their name to meta, right? Like, things just went completely bonkers. And what happened is, like, probably the industry got a little out ahead of its skis, and so now we're feeling the repercussions of that. So you have, I think it was this past maybe a couple of days ago, like the near Ethereum bridge, right? The rainbow bridge, something happened. I don't think any funds were lost. But then you had, obviously the Ronin bridge, it's like 600, 650 million.
00:29:10.868 - 00:29:27.476, Speaker A: Wormhole bridge, right? It was like 300, 320 million. Like, these things start to kind of break down. So how do you guys see yourselves? Actually, I'd rephrase that. Like, what is the issue? What's happening here? And then how do you guys solve that, if at all? How do you guys play a role in that?
00:29:27.580 - 00:30:02.554, Speaker B: Yeah, so, incredible observation. And in fact, there is this narrative around the less crypto changes, the less likely it is to break, the more stable it is. A lot of bitcoin maximalists say the best part about bitcoin is that it really never changes. And there's probably some truth to that, I should say. I am not a maxi on any crypto asset. I actually am a pretty firm believer in the role that different protocols need to play in the future of crypto. So my opinion is kind of informed by that.
00:30:02.554 - 00:30:43.022, Speaker B: But the reality is, and you point this out, like, the more we innovate, the more we change, the more likely we are for mistakes to happen, for errors to happen, for bad code to go out. And so I think that's very right. I think your description that the space got ahead of its skis is probably, and for folks that don't know that reference, if you're skiing, if you lean over your skis too much, you fall. The idea is you get ahead of yourself. And I think that's right. Anyone who's been through a few different cycles in crypto has seen that before in different forms. Not to be flippant about it, but I just don't think it's that new.
00:30:43.022 - 00:31:52.516, Speaker B: I think we're seeing it happen at slightly different scales. I love that you brought up the bridges and the bridge hacks, because they've showed an interesting trend that I've been seeing in crypto, which is this shift from the sort of risks associated with being in crypto, from the infrastructure to almost the smart contract layer or the software layer. So for folks that are kind of maybe a little bit newer to the sort of bridge world, the hacks or the errors you're talking about are these interoperable bridges, and someone can take an asset, move it from, let's just say, ethereum to Solana seamlessly, so I can move my ethereum from ETH to Solana. The core principle is you have a protocol that has a contract that locks up your ETH on Ethereum. And then again, I'm overly simplifying this, and then simultaneously mints new ETH on the chain that you're looking to move it to. So I'd lock my ETH on Ethereum, and then the protocol then mints new ETH normally a wrapped ETH on that new chain. Um, and, uh, and so I think you're, you're exactly right.
00:31:52.516 - 00:32:41.800, Speaker B: We got ahead of our skis, and so we're, we're sort of saying, like, oh, we're building these things really, really quickly. Um, we probably are, I don't want to say skipping, but rushing through some of the earlier, like, testing phases, uh, of like, you know, does it scale? Will it, will it break? You know, in, in the, like, old software days, you would say, like, great, I launched a product, but like, five people can come to my website or my app. But what if a million people show up tomorrow? Will it still work? And these products failed all the time. I mean, if you think of even Twitter, ten years ago, Twitter used to go down weekly. It was pretty regular because it took these companies a while to solve some of the scaling problems. And I think that these are just scaling issues within crypto. The thing that's a little bit scarier within crypto is that there's a lot of real funds associated with it.
00:32:41.800 - 00:33:36.366, Speaker B: And so the stakes are pretty high. And, but I don't believe that the costs, so, like, the risks should be a deterrent from innovating, and innovating quickly. Like, the crypto space is just magical because of how fast it innovates. And one of the thing that's been, that's been cool with these bridge attacks is we've actually seen the space pretty much bounced back. In the case of the most recent wormhole attack that you were mentioning, no funds were lost, which means that the code was actually written really well. We got to see what happens when an attacker tries to attack a bridge and is unsuccessful, which I thought is awesome. The reality is, every time we iterate on these bridges, we're going to see them get better and better and better.
00:33:36.366 - 00:34:47.515, Speaker B: An attack from a year ago is a way to view a lens into the future of an attack that could happen in the future. And so I'm incredibly optimistic on the outcomes of these. Kind of just getting back to what you were saying, what's the role that we play here? And I saying there's this trend that's moving away from infrastructure to the software layer. If I take staking as an example today, there's a few different ways people can stake. You can stake on a centralized exchange, you can stake using a decentralized protocol, for instance, lido, or you can stake directly by running staking nodes on a specific network. What people forget, and I think that this is okay, is that the underlying infrastructure behind the centralized exchange that's allowing you to stake, or the underlying infrastructure behind the decentralized protocol that's allowing you to synthetically stake are all the same as the nodes that are running, that allows you to directly stake. What we've shown and the role that we play is how do we make sure that, like I mentioned before, that the ground that people are building on top of isn't moving from under them.
00:34:47.515 - 00:35:19.096, Speaker B: So I view the fact that we're seeing these innovative products come out to enable better UX's for different use cases as a really big win for folks that are building in the sort of underlying infrastructure space. Like the fact that nobody uses Lido and says, like, what nodes are powering this is a really good thing because it means like the nodes that are powering it are actually doing a really good job of producing, verifying, validating blocks, which is the sort of core, the crux of having a blockchain that works well. So that's really the role we play.
00:35:19.240 - 00:35:28.576, Speaker A: Yeah. Will you eventually be able to bridge, like, even with this topic of bridges, will you eventually just be able to do all your bridging on Coinbase? Is that something that you guys are thinking about?
00:35:28.680 - 00:35:35.718, Speaker B: So I don't want to. I don't want to get too far ahead on the product solutions that we haven't launched yet.
00:35:35.886 - 00:35:39.518, Speaker A: Your product team is like, damn it, Joe, what did you promise on that podcast?
00:35:39.686 - 00:35:47.566, Speaker B: Yeah, they're like, don't go on a podcast and promise what we're going to launch. So I don't want to. That's a big no no.
00:35:47.750 - 00:35:51.754, Speaker A: That's the difference between being a founder and working at a big company.
00:35:52.134 - 00:36:25.080, Speaker B: Yeah, I feel like even as a founder, I still try to do it that much. Every once in a while it happens. No, but I think so. Look, to be entirely candid, if we weren't thinking about the interoperability and bridge space across chains, we probably wouldn't be doing a very good job. And so will you be able to bridge directly on Coinbase? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. There may be a product team that's working on that.
00:36:25.080 - 00:37:16.168, Speaker B: There may not be, but what I do know is that cloud in particular is building products, infrastructure, and API and SDK products to make it easier for devs to build interoperable protocols and to build applications on top of them. And that includes being able to move assets, transfer assets, submit transactions, verify those transactions, stake, for instance. So there's a sort of composable element to it. Like you bridge assets then what happens? Are you staking them? Are you moving them? Are you trading them? There's a whole bunch of different use cases or jobs to be done that are happening. And we currently have our node product that enables people to do that. And our staking products as well, enable people to delegate or to participate and run their own nodes on these protocols. So we're definitely thinking a lot about the interoperable space.
00:37:16.168 - 00:37:25.264, Speaker B: And I said it before, our strategy was all about creating this world where there's lots of different blockchains that interact pretty seamlessly, and part of that is bridging interoperability.
00:37:26.724 - 00:37:55.634, Speaker A: All right, everyone, quick break from the show to share a big update from our friends at Pariswap. The best platform to stake, swap, trade, farm, and more. Paraswap just launched gas refunds. Based on how much you stake, you can now get up to 100% of your gas refunded on all of your swaps on Paraswap. This is huge for anyone who has spent a lot of time in Defi. Or maybe it's just starting out. You know how egregiously expensive the gas transactions can get.
00:37:55.634 - 00:38:16.520, Speaker A: The gas fees are ridiculous at some points in time, and now you can get those entirely refunded on Paraswap. To participate, all you need to do is stake a minimum of 500 psp. Big shout out to the paraswap dow for making these refunds possible. Really, it's just. It's tough to beat Paraswap right now. They give you the best prices. They save you money.
00:38:16.520 - 00:38:35.872, Speaker A: You've got this gas refund if you stake PSP. They've got a smooth and really user friendly interface. Fast swapping. It's really everything that you'd want from a defi platform if you don't use them already. Check out Paraswap today at Paraswap IO. Now let's get back to the show. Let's talk about staking.
00:38:35.872 - 00:38:57.884, Speaker A: Let's go there. So right now, 30% of ETH is staked via Lido. And Lido has about maybe 85% to 90% of the liquid staking market. So not even talking about Coinbase and Coinbase cloud does that. Does, like, Lido's dominance in the staking kind of wars or battle or whatever, or just market share. Does that concern you at all?
00:38:59.104 - 00:40:10.932, Speaker B: I'm going to say no, but I'm going to say no with an asterisk and caveat it, I think. And this is amazing. And tons of respect to the Lido team, they have showed the crypto world that the product that they've built is something that people want and that is incredibly valuable. We talked a little bit about switching costs before, so getting back to this idea of switching costs, I actually think it's incredibly valuable that they have shown folks that liquid staking is possible and done at scale. I think that we need more competition in that space in particular, and we're starting to see it pop up in different ways. There's a few teams that have built similar liquid staking protocols on alternative l one s or different l one s other than Ethereum, that are starting to think about how they can position themselves on Ethereum or are already positioning themselves on Ethereum. And I wouldn't be surprised if we saw a lot of competition in the next, like, if Lido started to see a lot of competition in the next like six to twelve months, and it's gonna be cool, it's gonna force Lido to continue to innovate, it's gonna force other folks to continue to innovate as well.
00:40:10.932 - 00:41:03.636, Speaker B: So maybe I should say like, yes, it concerns me if it were to stay like that forever, but no, it doesn't concern me because I believe this. It's still really early, and we're in like the early phases. We're gonna see a lot of competing protocols building in that space. What I do see is, again, this shift, this underlying shift, to people being okay with the risk from the smart contract perspective, and maybe they're just not thinking about it that much. Personally, I look at Lido and I say, great team, great product, really cool idea. They've decentralized the risk of the node operators themselves and staking to specific nodes, and also made it a lot simpler so people don't have to think about it all that much, which is great, but they've also then concentrated the risk around this contract or this set of contracts. And I think that's okay.
00:41:03.636 - 00:42:03.066, Speaker B: We just have to recognize it and make sure that there's more eyes on it, people are looking at it, and then continue to offer competing products. If we were to stay forever in a world where Lido had 30% of Ethereum stakes, I think we'd be in a lot of trouble. Someone who's been in proof of stake very early and was like a proponent for the space, I'm pretty well aware, and for folks that aren't, that if you control more than 33% of a network or votes on a network, you can basically stall the network, whether it's maliciously or deliberately. And so that's something we've always shied away from and making sure that we were not running that risk. The tricky thing about a decentralized protocol is I don't think they can actually make that, actively make that decision. The folks that hold the governance token would have to vote to stop minting new. I forget the rapt steth.
00:42:03.066 - 00:42:15.322, Speaker B: Is it Ste that they have steeth? Yeah, yeah. They would have to vote to stop minting new SDE, then like close the contract or something like that. And I'm just not convinced. I see a world where that happens. Yeah.
00:42:15.418 - 00:42:35.810, Speaker A: Yeah. I mean, it's, and if you look at a chart of it, there's this, you know, back in, I mean, it's basically just going up every single month. They're the percentage of ETH staked in lido. So today, as of today, it's 31.6%. So if they hit that 33%, that means what, what does that actually mean? What, what can they do to the network?
00:42:35.962 - 00:43:30.634, Speaker B: So it's a little bit more nuanced than if they hit 33% that they could stall it, because they. As far as I know, again, I'm not like, I don't work on Lido, but as far as I know, they take that Ethereum and they distribute it across a bunch of different block producers on Ethereum. And so in theory they could. In theory they would be, the lido protocol would be proposing, validating more than a third of blocks. And if you are the one that's proposing and validating more than a third of blocks, if you're for some reason incapable of validating those blocks, again, I'm going to throw up arbitrarily saying capable. Whether the protocol goes down, it gets hacked. There's lots of reasons why they could be incapable.
00:43:30.634 - 00:43:57.776, Speaker B: Ethereum, again, we're talking about ETH two, would stall. It would not be able to reach consensus and wouldn't be able to produce new blocks. And this is like a risk, by the way, this is not just a lido thing. This is not just an Ethereum thing. This is a risk in most implementations. For proof of stake networks, having a chainstall is pretty terrible. You can't produce more blocks, which means nothing happens.
00:43:57.776 - 00:44:25.154, Speaker B: And we definitely don't want that to happen. It's a risk. It's hard to perfectly quantify how likely that risk is. That's the issue for a centralized entity, it's a little bit easier. For a very distributed entity, it's a little bit more difficult. And in particular, a decentralized protocol, it's actually quite difficult. Would you say 31.6%
00:44:25.154 - 00:45:26.226, Speaker B: that's a big chunk. The one thing I will say also is that we actually haven't seen too many large, I'll just say large aggregators of ETH come to market with competing products. I think Ethereum being in this sort of like two ETH world right now, where there's ETH one, the existing chain, and we're going through them. I know the foundation doesn't want us to talk about as ETH two anymore, but whatever the pre merge and post merge Ethereum, I think that's also kind of put people in a bit of a holding pattern. I know plenty of builders that are like, well, let's just wait till the merge happens and then start to build and implement products. And so I do think, like, the optimist in me is always looking at this as like, this feels like a temporary problem. And that post merge we'll probably see the, you know, the Krakens and the coinbases and the finances of the world, you know, which I'm sure have lots of ETH.
00:45:26.226 - 00:45:41.192, Speaker B: I don't actually know for a fact, but I'm sure have plenty of ETH on them. Start to come to market with like, products that can compete with lido and you'll probably see a lot of the concentration around Lido go down. The reality is Lido is the best product today.
00:45:41.328 - 00:46:07.032, Speaker A: Yeah. If you are Coinbases head of product, I know this might be a better question for the product team, but I'm going to ask you it anyways. Would you recommend that Coinbase to compete? Should you guys launch a liquid staking derivative for staked ETH? Or instead, should you maybe just plug in and feed assets into lido and give users the ability to get steeth in their wallet.
00:46:07.128 - 00:46:12.164, Speaker B: So I won't speak to anything we are or aren't doing. So this is a hypothetical question.
00:46:12.824 - 00:46:14.264, Speaker A: Exactly. Hypothetical.
00:46:14.424 - 00:46:50.002, Speaker B: This is a hypothetical question. There's nothing to do about what we are aren't doing, but I will say to stay in line with our mission about increasing economic freedom. The idea would be to enable people to participate where they want to participate. If they want to own steeth, they can own steth. If they want to not own Steth, because they, from an ethos perspective, believe that Lido has too much control, they should have an alternative. If they would like to opt for simplicity and custody. There's probably a solution that exists within the exchange world or within the centralized exchange or centralized retail app world.
00:46:50.002 - 00:47:30.806, Speaker B: And so I know that we are an incredibly mission focused organization, and that's how we think about building new products. It's less about should we build a derivative, should we not build a derivative, should we launch a competitor? I think it's really about increasing freedom and access, and that includes supporting a whole bunch of different solutions, particularly on the cloud side. We've definitely lived that. Focused only on any chain. We're not focused on, only any solution. We're not focused on. We participate in staking in all the three different forms that I described earlier, centralized staking.
00:47:30.806 - 00:48:15.868, Speaker B: We work with a lot of exchanges and custodians to help them stake. Today, behind the scenes, we do that. Decentralized staking, we participate in decentralized protocols, and we run staking nodes to be able to do that same thing with direct, obviously direct staking, which has been our bread and butter, because none of these things existed in 20 19 20 18 20 19 20 20. So we enable individuals to run nodes and stake. And if you have 32 ETH and you want to run your own Ethereum node, you can do that on cloud today yourself. So I think sticking to our mission and our values, it's really about enabling people to do what they want to do, where they want to do it. Um, so, you know, I would, I would guess that that's the direction that we go.
00:48:15.956 - 00:48:39.720, Speaker A: Yeah. What about Mev? Right. As an infrastructure provider in a lot of these pos, uh, chains, I'm I'm assuming Mev is a recurring theme. Um, I'm curious if you guys, like, if Coinbase cloud is working on any MEV products and also just like, um. Yeah, I don't know. It feels like whoever can kind of capture and distribute MeV the best will end up attracting the most delegators via high, higher yield. So I'm just curious how you guys are thinking about this.
00:48:39.812 - 00:49:28.884, Speaker B: Yeah, I was hoping. I was wondering if we'd make it through this conversation without talking about Mev. So I was gonna say hoping that we were, but actually, that's not true. I think it's an incredible topic. It's a double edged sword, is what I would say. So, on one hand, what you're describing is people will use validators that can extract mvv because they'll be able to drive more value to, for producing blocks or validating blocks to their delegates or their stakers, which is totally true. But then there's the other side, which there's a bit of an ethos pushback in the space against Mev, that it's extractive, that it's a little bit too focused on extracting value, I mean, it's in the name, but whatever.
00:49:28.884 - 00:50:04.362, Speaker B: Extracting value from the ecosystem versus giving it back. We have thought about it a lot, actually. We've thought about how it affects our product offering. We've thought about how it affects our rewards rate on the nodes that we run. And what we're trying to do is be really thoughtful. What we haven't done is rush to market with, hey, here's a me, the optimized node. We've been deliberate about that because we actually are trying to be thoughtful about how we would want to have this exist in the world.
00:50:04.362 - 00:51:32.244, Speaker B: I think that kind of falls on people that have been in crypto for a little while. I think it's on us to help shape the world of crypto that we want to see and try not to be too opinionated, but make sure that we're striking a good balance. The biggest thing for me and for us is how can we be really transparent about MeV more than anything? So it's not about can we offer the product or not? It's like how do we offer it in a way that's super transparent to everyone, not just the people using it, but the market. And until we're comfortable being able to do that, we haven't been wanting to launch something. The second piece is mostly around how can we give back. If you think about Mev as a means to extract value, but as you're extracting value, how can you give back to the ecosystem in the space? And so a lot of conversations that we've had internally on the product side at cloud is like, can we capture Mev? But should we carve off a portion of it and give it back to the foundation to support future innovation and development. I'm not saying we're doing that, but these are examples of ways should we use it to sponsor gitcoin grants or hackathons? It's really like we want to make sure that we're creating a balance and creating a sustainable business, but at the same time making sure we're not just taking, taking, taking from the ecosystem.
00:51:32.244 - 00:51:43.816, Speaker B: And so to be able to do that well, I think you need to be a little bit patient and a little bit thoughtful about the products that you build and the ones you go to market with, because it's really hard to backtrack. Once you go to market with something.
00:51:44.000 - 00:52:19.854, Speaker A: What is the, I mean, I hear a lot of folks talk about like there's this moral hazard, right, for large. These like large market makers and prop traders who make millions on MEV. And they're also, and when they're also the top validators in the network. Right. And I think that there's this concern that maximizing MeV may be best for prop trading, but maybe not best for the network. What, what is that? Can you just explain for folks who maybe don't know Mev as well, like, what is that concern? Why do folks say it's a moral hazard? And why wouldn't. If you're maybe, I mean, there's this word extracting value, which sounds bad, but if you just change it to, say, generating value, like, why is this a bad thing? Basically.
00:52:20.474 - 00:52:59.050, Speaker B: So it's a bit, okay, well, there's two pieces. One, I'll say that I am not the pinnacle of experts on MeV. There's folks in the space that are much more well versed in it than I am. I don't do any prop trading. I don't participate personally in the activities that extract MEV. So my understanding of MeV is it's good, but it's like relatively high level. So the moral hazard is mostly around how transactions are built in the ecosystem.
00:52:59.050 - 00:54:26.114, Speaker B: And so essentially, you can change the transaction ordering on a block. And if you are the person who, I'm gonna say person, but the entity or the organization that is responsible for setting the transaction order, but also deciding transaction order, that benefits you more so than other folks in the ecosystem, you create this incentive, this perverse incentive structure, where you're only acting on your own behalf. And the bigger you are, the more you can do that. So if you are 30% of Ethereum, for instance, and you are statistically going to validate and produce one third of all blocks, one third of transactions, you can organize in a way where you get the maximum amount of extraction from the transaction ordering. So when you have players that kind of cross both playing fields, one, I'm trying to extract as much value from this transaction order as possible, and two, I'm trying to, I'm the one that's responsible for, has this responsibility for proposing, validating and signing blocks. You basically put two decisions that can be pretty detrimental in one entity's hands. There's teams like flashbots, which are trying to democratize access to this.
00:54:26.114 - 00:55:08.498, Speaker B: If everybody has the entire same toolset to engage in Mev, like flashbots, for instance, then it kind of reduces the barriers to entry and engaging in mev. And then, like, anyone can do it. And so then you sort of, in a weird way, it's like, I hate this expression, but it's almost like an arms race. You know, it's like, if you have, like, the best weapons, then, like, you can be really extractive. But then if, like, all the weapon, if everyone has all the best weapons, then it's like no one can really be that extractive. So I'm pretty bullish on technologies like, and teams like flashbots that are helping, making it easier for folks to engage in it. I do think it's still a relatively esoteric space right now.
00:55:08.498 - 00:55:19.370, Speaker B: I think really limited to prop houses and pretty advanced traders, but that'll change. I think we'll start to see more in products and services that kind of bake it into what they've done.
00:55:19.482 - 00:55:43.284, Speaker A: Let's get back into some of the infrastructure stuff. One thing that's really popular right now, which is the scaling wars, is we've seen a lot of developer SDKs from, like, Cosmos come out. You've seen subnets from Avalanche, and I think polygon spinning up a new chain or just like a roll up is an extremely heavy burden for anyone who's actually been in the weeds doing this. Is this an area that you see Coinbase cloud potentially getting into?
00:55:43.444 - 00:56:31.396, Speaker B: Yeah, it's actually an area that we have a ton of experience in, too. So I mentioned earlier on that we've worked with protocol teams from the earliest phases, and that's, that's actually quite literal. So there's plenty of protocol teams, including some of the most popular l one s today that we were pretty actively involved in even the earliest testnets. So this is kind of a fun fact. One of the first protocols that our platform supported was Cosmos, and Cosmos launched in this incentivized testnet, actually a testnet, and then an incentivized testnet. There was no real rewards or no real benefit to being on it, other than helping the ecosystem cold start, which is a very, very difficult problem. We have a ton of experience working with early protocol teams.
00:56:31.396 - 00:57:16.884, Speaker B: We've done this, like I said, with Cosmos. We were with Solana. We were on the Solana early, early testnets from a year, two years before even the beta net went live. We were one of the earliest validators and block producers on ETH two and continue to support the Ethereum chain as it moves towards the merge. But to your point, the protocol teams are trying to make it easier to spin up these networks. One of the things that you're hitting at, which without directly hitting at it, is that there's actually this trend in some of these ecosystems to create this shared security model main chain, and then you have these application specific or modular subchains. So subnets is an example.
00:57:16.884 - 00:58:28.638, Speaker B: Avalanche is focused on how do we have a network specifically for Dex or for gaming? We see the same thing in Cosmos, where in the Cosmos and tendermint ecosystem, where you have the Cosmos main chain and you have the Osmo chain, for instance, specifically just a chain for Dex, the Osmo Dex stargaze chain, which is specifically their chain for nfts. The protocol teams have been making it easier, which is cool, the SDKs and then something like IBC, which is the inter blockchain connectivity I believe it stands for, which the tendermin team has built to make it easier, the tooling around, making it easier to communicate with the Cosmos chain. And then these sub chains, Polkadot's doing a similar thing where they have the parachains as well, that have a shared security model with the main Polkadot chain. So the ways we've been involved, there is one. We work with early protocol teams regularly. So we launched Evmos recently. We've worked with the Acala team and the Carrara team.
00:58:28.638 - 00:59:01.524, Speaker B: And in Polkadot, a lot of times these protocol founders will come to us and say, hey, we're looking for help to get this cold start off the ground at. And we're experts in getting protocols up and off the ground running. And we do that. It's really valuable for us because we get to be involved very, very early. And then we also then build some of our own tooling, like read and write nodes on top of those chains as well as staking nodes and offer that to the market. So that's where it helps transitively, helps our business model as well. So, yeah, super early.
00:59:01.524 - 00:59:37.948, Speaker B: We then work with early stakers to help produce blocks and get them up and running. A day one launches is really important for us. And then, yeah, and just making sure that we're making these ecosystem really robust and having a ton of expertise in the, I don't know what we should probably come up with a name, like a unified name for this, but basically, like the main chain ecosystems. So there's like the l one S and then the l two S or the sub chains or the side chains around them. We call them ecosystems internally, but, yeah, so we're pretty involved and created a lot of expertise around those ecosystems.
00:59:38.076 - 00:59:44.036, Speaker A: If you were, did you follow the Yugalabs, like, land sale debacle over the weekend?
00:59:44.220 - 00:59:51.308, Speaker B: Relatively loosely? So, yes, but, like, I didn't try and mint any land, so not as close, but, yeah, pretty closely.
00:59:51.356 - 01:00:12.322, Speaker A: Yeah, if you, if you were Yugalabs. So Yugalabs comes out. So, like, they, you know, the gas went to like $3,000 or something like that. $4,000, I forget what it actually was, and totally clogged up the entire chain. It was kind of this, like, reminiscent of 2017 cryptokitties moment. Right? So Yuga labs comes out and they say, okay, we clogged up ethereum. We need to move to our own chain.
01:00:12.322 - 01:00:27.250, Speaker A: Basically, if you are Yugalabs. And so a lot of people have pushed back and say, why do they need to create their own chain? Should they move on to, like, an l two? Should they actually fork an l two? If you're Yugalabs, what are you doing? What is your solution to this? And can Coinbase cloud help with it?
01:00:27.402 - 01:00:53.586, Speaker B: Yes, Coinbase cloud can help with it. The answer one. Yes, Coinbase cloud can help with it. But that's obviously dependent on my answer. This is an opinionated answer, so I don't want to offend anybody at Yuga, but no, I don't think that they need to launch their own chain. I think that we've actually seen a number of chains that can support the type of scale that they're looking for, even if they decided that they wanted to stay on Ethereum. And there's a few flow in particular.
01:00:53.586 - 01:01:20.898, Speaker B: You mentioned cryptokitties, the team from Dapper. And that then launched flow was literally the exact same problem that we're seeing, that we saw over the weekend, which was like, cryptokitties broke Ethereum, and they were like, let's build our own chain specifically for nfts. So, like, a world where, like, every successful NFT project decides it needs to build its own main chain is fine. It just doesn't sound like the. It wouldn't be the solution that I would take. You know, I said, like, my. The.
01:01:20.898 - 01:01:44.416, Speaker B: Our thesis is that there's going to be multiple chains, many, many chains, and some of those will be duplicative. There'll be many NFT chains. I think that's totally fine. Does every successful NFT project need to build their own chain? Probably not. I would maybe take a step back and look at what has happened historically. I think when Dapper decided they were going to do it and they built flow, there wasn't really an NFT chain. And so maybe that was the right time and the right idea.
01:01:44.416 - 01:02:53.704, Speaker B: I think today I would not. I think that as we're seeing Ethereum move more modular and breaking up consensus execution and data availability, which is what the merge is going to do, and the upgrades on Ethereum is going to do. The problems that you face during their mint and scaling could be done on an l two, and they could have used polygon or arbitrum or optimism or any of the other l two s that could have supported this. If it was me, I'd come to cloud and I'd say, hey, we actually are going to have a really large presence on this l two, or these two l two s, for instance, because we want to decentralize it a little bit, help us run nodes on these different protocols so that we have really amazing connectivity that we can make the ground a little bit less shaky. But then these l two s and roll ups will help solve some of the scaling issues and clogging up the main chain issues. That's what I would do. Um, and maybe I should reach out to them and suggest it.
01:02:54.124 - 01:02:55.684, Speaker A: Give them the pitch. Give them the pitch.
01:02:55.764 - 01:03:10.052, Speaker B: Yeah, I'll get them. I'll give them the pitch. I'll show them my one kennel and my one kennel dog and be like, look, I'm a big, I'm a big time Yuga supporter. Um, and you know, I think y'all should do this and listen to me.
01:03:10.148 - 01:03:48.052, Speaker A: One thing that I want to get your take on is actually a prediction. So Vance and Michael from Framework ventures came on the podcast the other day. Really, really interesting episode they have. They put out. So they just raised their $400 million fund and they put out about, I think it was like 20 predictions. So for the year, by the year 20, 31 of the predictions was that most SaaS businesses that have their own public facing API will end up having their own l two on Ethereum. So most SaaS businesses by 2030 will have their own l two on Ethereum, which replaces their public facing API.
01:03:48.052 - 01:03:49.724, Speaker A: What do you think about that prediction?
01:03:49.884 - 01:04:28.974, Speaker B: I love it. I think the definition of l two is maybe a bit loose. So the way we view l two s today are mostly in the form of like very specific type rollups. I think that the idea of having a open source public API is way more beneficial and powerful to even the SaaS business, as well as the ecosystem. More eyes on it, more people able to compose and abstract it away or build stuff on top of it. So this is very valuable for sure. I think if you really blurred or smudged the definition of what an l two is, I think that makes a ton of sense.
01:04:28.974 - 01:05:35.426, Speaker B: I think that we're going to see a ton of major businesses that use very successful l one s as a finality layer for elements of their business. And they could build scalable l two solutions, subnets, parachains, side chains, whatever you want to call them, depending on the ecosystem you're working on that support their business. So, yeah, I actually think that's a really, really cool prediction. I think it's also entirely in line with this view that we're going to exist in the multi chain world. And if you looked at like a modern shopify business, for instance, there's a ton of SaaS that they use in the background that are private APIs. A world where those private APIs are actually public l two chains with public APIs is very much in line with our vision of this multi chain world and that all software is going to be crypto software. I think the thing that I like to tell the team, and the thing I like to tell folks is we're going to get to a point where we stop saying this is a web3 company or this is a crypto company the same way as we did.
01:05:35.426 - 01:06:05.582, Speaker B: It was a very short period where companies were called mobile companies or web two companies, a short period being a couple of years. But I think we're in that phase right now where it's, oh, this is a web3 company. Oh, this is a crypto company. In ten years, by that time, no one's going to say this is a crypto company. There's going to be a company and companies are going to have or organizations, whether maybe they're daos, maybe they're not companies anymore, are going to have massive crypto software components to their products and their, their software.
01:06:05.758 - 01:06:30.618, Speaker A: Last question here, Joe, is you started bison trails after just building in the space and finding that the underlying. There are a lot of underlying problems with the existing infrastructure. What are the blaring holes in infrastructure today? And maybe targeting the answer. There's a lot of entrepreneurs and founders and even investors who listen to this. Is there any low hanging fruit outside of maybe Coinbase Cloud's purview that you would encourage other teams to start working on?
01:06:30.766 - 01:06:56.094, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't want to. I don't want to get. I don't want to. I don't want to get too far over my own skis here. I also, we have like a pretty long term roadmap that is like multi year. And so I don't want to give too much away about the stuff that we're thinking about in the future. I think being a little bit more like focusing on the development of the ecosystem and the development of the crypto space.
01:06:56.094 - 01:07:54.494, Speaker B: I think that there's a tremendous amount of software work and developer tooling work to be done around smart contracts, around the auditability, the building, the composability around it. I think there's a tremendous amount of work to be done around cross chain communication. So not just a protocol that does bridging, but data sharing, cross chain execution. I think that there's a tremendous amount of work to be done still on reliable infrastructure nodes and APIs in the various types of protocols that we're seeing. You see storage protocols, you see smart contract protocols, you see bridge protocols. We're still in the infancy in a lot of these smart contract ones are maybe the most mature, still only a few years. Bridges are barely a year.
01:07:54.494 - 01:08:36.198, Speaker B: The oldest live bridge, I think, is just over a year or something like that, which is insane. I think there's still a tremendous amount of work to be done around the open access APIs that helps these different protocols communicate. I think that's maybe as far as I'll go. There's a couple ideas that we're working on that are can't give away the secrets sauce. Well, it's not even so much secret sauce. It's more like we're in progress on a couple of these things and we're really excited about it. The last thing I'll say there is that anyone who's really great in the space specifically focused on developers helping people build.
01:08:36.198 - 01:09:00.946, Speaker B: You need to be really plugged in and listening to the developers. And that's the most important thing that any of us are doing. And it's something that my co founder and I spent a tremendous amount of time doing. You said we built this company and we built this product to help our own, to serve our own needs. Because we are developers, we know the space, we are the builders in the space. And staying connected with the builders is the most important thing that any of us or any of these companies need to do, because that's how you understand the pain points we're going to end.
01:09:00.970 - 01:09:30.330, Speaker A: On this, which is just. I just love. This is the Coinbase seed pitch deck from summer of 2012. And the main pain point was just that bitcoin is too difficult to use and it shares this like current tools and it's just a bunch of code. And then you've got this screenshot of Coinbase, which, by the way, if you can kind of zoom in, I don't know if you can see it, it's got a balance of 42 bitcoin. So what is that? That's like a price of like $1.6 million now so I don't think they were expecting for the average user to have 1.6
01:09:30.330 - 01:09:47.064, Speaker A: million in their account. So. I just love this. I just love this screen. And it's amazing to see that this is from summer of 20. 1210 years later, Coinbase is still working on the mission of making all of this stuff easier to use. So hats off to you and the entire Coinbase cloud team.
01:09:47.924 - 01:09:57.284, Speaker B: I love this. This is awesome. And thanks for showing this. I wish there's a version of this. That's the cloud version. This is the Coinbase version. How do you buy bitcoin? It's too difficult to use.
01:09:57.284 - 01:10:09.344, Speaker B: And literally there's a version of this seed deck slide that's like, crypto is too hard to build in and it's like a bunch of developer tools. And then there's like originally bison trails, but now Coinbase cloud.
01:10:10.124 - 01:10:16.156, Speaker A: Exactly. We'll keep up the good work, man. I think we're all rooting for you and. Yeah, be well. We'll see you at permissionless.
01:10:16.260 - 01:10:18.724, Speaker B: Sweet. Thanks for having me on the show and I'm excited to see you.
