00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.678, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where we kept the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host. And there's Asano. And to the 17 October 2023. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So I'm sure you were all made well aware of what happened yesterday with regards to some ETF news, or I guess fake news as it is known now.
00:00:19.678 - 00:00:53.062, Speaker A: So just a quick kind of context here and a quick background story. There was an announcement out of Cointelegraph, which is one of the crypto media companies out there basically announcing that BlackRock spot, bitcoin. Bitcoin. ETF had been approved. Now, of course, at the time, as soon after that announcement, I kind of looked at it and I was just like, what's the source on this? Because they didn't cite any source. They didn't cite the SEC's website or BlackRock's website or anything like that. So immediately, I kind of was doubting the news, to be honest, especially because as I've said before, the SEC is probably going to approve all of the spot ETF's at once.
00:00:53.062 - 00:01:36.320, Speaker A: And the fact that Cointelegraph had the exclusive was also a major red flag for me because they never have an exclusive on anything. They're basically a copy paste media organization for the most part, where they basically just relay the news from other, other sources, which is fine, but as I said, they're not usually the one to break the story. So taking all that into account, I went and after I saw the tweet, I went and looked at the, at the charts and I saw that BTC had an ETH and everything had spiked massively on the, on the news, of course. But then moments later, people started calling it out as fake news and being like, you know, where's the source on this? That doesn't make any sense. It seems fake. And then slowly, slowly it came to light within 1015 minutes that it was indeed fake. Completely fake.
00:01:36.320 - 00:02:07.682, Speaker A: It was. It was completely made up, it seems, by Cointelegraph. And they later deleted their tweet, which you can see on my screen here. That tweet's not available. But Eleanor here, who works at Fox Business, basically said that BlackRock confirmed to her as well that the information was false and their application is still under review. Now, obviously, a lot to unpack here with what happened. I think the number one thing is that when you see some news without a source, and also if the sources are just self referential, where essentially what ended up happening with this is cointelegraph.
00:02:07.682 - 00:02:56.636, Speaker A: Put this out there. And then I think Bloomberg even picked it up in Reuters and they were basically sourcing each other. And then the ultimate source was still cointelegraph. But usually when you see news like this and there's no kind of legitimate source behind it, then it's most likely fake news, right? It's most likely not true here, especially when it comes to crypto related news, especially when, when it comes to stuff that's market, market related or can impact markets. Because as we all know, the spot BTC ets being approved, obviously. I mean, we know now know that that would have a massive effect on the market, which is another thing that people were talking about as well, where they were basically saying, you know what if this happens on fake news, imagine what happens when it's actually real. Like imagine all the demand that comes in and you can kind of see from the price action just how much demand is waiting on the sidelines here.
00:02:56.636 - 00:03:48.740, Speaker A: And people will ask, why are they waiting on the sidelines if they, they basically just, you know, ape in as soon as the, as soon as the, the news comes out. And I don't think it's a lot of that. I mean, people maybe don't understand this about trading, but essentially what ends up happening is that a lot of the asks, that is the orders that people have on their, to sell their BTC at, for example, they're not necessarily that much higher than the current spot price because a lot of the times people aren't going to put their asks at like 30k, right? If they, if they're a trader, they're probably going to put it a bit lower depending on what the market makers is doing and stuff like that. So essentially what happens is that in a news driven event, the price spikes really quickly from, honestly, algo bots and some traders just buying into it. You get a massive liquidation of people who were short. And then because there's not many asks there, the liquidity is quite thin. You can see that massive spike then.
00:03:48.740 - 00:04:27.172, Speaker A: That's why when you look at the charts, he's got all these wicks on the charts. The wicks are usually that playing out, essentially. And because of that, that can give you, I guess, like better technical analysis if you're into that sorts of stuff, but it can also give you a signal around what kind of move it is. Now, obviously, this move was just purely driven by that news, but at the same time, it does show that there is a lot of sideline demand, in my opinion. And it does show that there is a lot of kind of open air above current prices where there's not that many asks sitting there. And I do believe that if the spot BTC ETF's were approved for real, there would be a really, really strong bid there. And, you know, I'm not the only one saying this.
00:04:27.172 - 00:05:19.860, Speaker A: You know, there's a lot of people on Twitter saying this, and I don't think it's hopium, because, you know, there's a video that came out with an interview today that Fox Business did with Larry Fink where he talked about this incident, of course, because Larry Fink is the CEO of Blackrock. And he basically said, well, you know, even the fake news caused the price spike because he believes that it's a flight to quality. He believes that the crypto asset class as a whole, not just bitcoin, is a flight to quality. Now, to hear the CEO of the largest asset manager in the management firm in the world say, this is a really, really big deal, and I don't think people have digested just how big of a deal this is. Because not only is he sending a very, very strong signal to the world that crypto is a legitimate asset class, but he is also saying that it is a quality asset class. It is somewhere where you basically put your money in when you want to fly it to quality, right. Where you want to basically use it as a store of value.
00:05:19.860 - 00:06:00.748, Speaker A: Right. Which is an extremely strong proposition, I think, coming from him, because it just signals to all of these people that even the most serious and the biggest kind of asset managers in the world think this way. Now, on top of that, what do you think Larry and Blackrock and all the other spot ETF kind of application companies are doing right now? I can tell you what they're doing. They are contacting all of their clients, especially their high net worth clients. They are convincing them to put in a small portion, maybe it's only one to 2% of their net worth, into their bitcoin spot ETF's once. Once they launch. Because for them, the launch is a huge marketing event.
00:06:00.748 - 00:06:33.012, Speaker A: Like if BlackRock launches their ETF, or the especially Blackrock, I think, launches their spot, BTC ETF. And you see, like, no inflows. That would obviously be a huge blow to the narrative. That would be a huge, huge blow to them as a company, and it would be a really bad look. So of course, they're out there convincing all of their existing clients to put, you know, one to 2%, which isn't a huge ask right into these products and basically pitching them with analysis of the different, of the different kind of types of value accrual for things like bitcoin. Right. How to store value, how to fly to quality.
00:06:33.012 - 00:07:22.868, Speaker A: And that's what you're seeing here. Larry is basically just saying out loud what he already says to Blackrock's clients, essentially what their marketing department say to Blackrock's clients. And it's not just black rock, of course, it's all of the other ETF application companies as well. They're definitely kind of marketing to their existing client base because they have tens of billions, hundreds of billions, trillions of dollars right under management. And if only one to 2% of that goes into a BTC spot, ETF on like, let's not say day one, but like, let's say the first few months of it, that's a huge amount of inflows. And you have to remember that once these products are live, it's not like we're just going to get like a couple of days of huge inflows or a couple of weeks of huge inflows and then it stops. The inflows may slow down because obviously there's that pent up demand when it first goes live, but then you have a trickling in over time in perpetuity, basically.
00:07:22.868 - 00:08:03.252, Speaker A: Until I guess, like these products essentially, I guess like die or, I don't know, it would last for a very long time, decades, to be honest, at this rate. Right. So when you look at it like that, and from that perspective, I think it's safe to say that the ETF stuff is still not priced in. And people are kind of wondering, okay, well, are we going to price it in now? Like, is this fake news event actually bullish? Because it showed the market that there is pent up demand there, that the ETF stuff isn't actually priced in. So it remains to be seen how that kind of plays out there. But I do strongly believe that it's not priced in. And as I've said before, guys, all that really is required to start a new bull market is breaking those crab market ranges.
00:08:03.252 - 00:08:30.014, Speaker A: And for BTC, it's only 32k, faith, it's 2.2k or around that. Right. And BTC went to 30k on this announcement here, so. And it's still at like what, 28 something k and e at like 1600 or almost that. So we're really not far away from breaking those crab market ranges now. Once they break and hold, which I expect to happen probably next year, q one or something like that that would be the official start of the bull market, right? Like, that would be the.
00:08:30.014 - 00:08:54.374, Speaker A: Oh, okay. Wow. The bull market's back on. I better get it now or I'm not going to have an opportunity because it's going to get away from me. I do think that that would be the case there. And I do think that, I mean, obviously, I'm not the only one who thinks this, but I do think that people at Blackrock and these other kind of other other companies that have submitted for ETF's, I think they think this way as well. They're definitely looking at things like the four year cycle.
00:08:54.374 - 00:09:24.598, Speaker A: They're not blind to this. They definitely understand, I guess, like crypto very well. I think they definitely understand the various market related memes, like the four year cycle and stuff like that. I haven't really heard anyone talk about stock to flow lately, and thank God, because stock to flow is basically voodoo science. But yeah, I feel like that's all definitely playing a big part there. Now, the last thing on the ETF news was Eric Bolkina sharing that. Kathy Wood, who is the CEO and founder of Ark, which has the BTC spot ETF approval deadline of Jan.
00:09:24.598 - 00:10:01.340, Speaker A: 10th. So whenever you hear me talk about Ark, it's, it's Cathie woods firm here. She said that the only blocker to the BTC spot ETF's right now is Gary Gensler. Now, this is not news to us, guys. Like, we all know this is the blocker here, that Gary Gensler is the, pretty much the only one standing in the way of it. But I think that, that it doesn't matter at this point because he's not going to stand in the way with it anymore. These things are definitely getting approved, but I think it's just validation, I guess, that from one of these companies that have applied for a spot b, two, c ETF multiple times, it just validates the thesis that we basically all have, that Gary Gensler has been the way one that's been in the way.
00:10:01.340 - 00:10:32.844, Speaker A: And really, if you actually look at it, it's not so much Gary Gensler as it is Elizabeth Warren, because that she's his boss, basically, and she is telling him what to do. And she's been very anti crypto. So I think it's been her, to be honest. And, and at this point, I think that the SEC has lost enough court cases that they have to begrudgeonly approve these things. Now, even if Elizabeth Warren doesn't want this to happen, I don't think she can stand in the way anymore of these. But really, that's the source of things. I know we all like to rag on Gensler a lot, but honestly, if Elizabeth Warren was telling him to be pro crypto, he would be pro crypto.
00:10:32.844 - 00:11:03.948, Speaker A: He's really just a puppet for. For her. And whoever she listens to, I'm not sure. She, she strikes me as someone who, she probably has people that she speaks to and people she aligns with, but she strikes me as someone, and I'm not an expert on. On us politicians, of course, but she strikes me as someone who has her own kind of agenda. And she runs on that platform because it gets her votes and stuff like that against, like, financial crimes generally, and she buckets it all together, especially crypto, obviously, because of f, you know, the FTX stuff and terror and all the other scams and stuff. It's just easy for her to target it.
00:11:03.948 - 00:11:33.004, Speaker A: And then she filters that down to the regulatory agencies such as the SEC. And then, of course, Gary Ganzler is not going to say no to his boss, just like you guys wouldn't say no to your boss. You know, you can always quit. But for him, he's not going to quit being head of the SEC. That's one of the most prestigious, I guess, appointments in the regulatory apparatus in the US. And it is the stepping stone for where he wants to go next, which is either the Treasury Department or maybe he wants to go back to private and become, like, a high up at a private company where he would obviously be paid a lot more. And that might be his goal as well.
00:11:33.004 - 00:11:43.578, Speaker A: But regardless, his goal is not to quit just because he disagrees with his boss. He. I don't think he cares about crypto that much to sacrifice himself for. For crypto. Right. So, yeah, good to think about that. When.
00:11:43.578 - 00:12:29.320, Speaker A: I mean, not to say that Gensler isn't a snake in his own right, in my opinion, but I think that he's just listening to his boss for the most part at this point. All right, moving on. So David Hoffman shared a Dune analytics dashboard and a diva scan dashboard here, showing the progress of divas vampire attack on Lido. So on here, which is divascan IO enzyme, you can actually look and see what the current amounts of steth and ethnicity that have been deposited into this vampire attack contract is and how many holders there are. So still early days, but right now there is 14,404 Steth and ETH deposited with 626 holders. And you can see the TVL over time has actually been growing since October 9. It's actually spiked quite, quite a bit, which is.
00:12:29.320 - 00:12:46.850, Speaker A: Which is really cool to see there. And then you can see down here what the tranches look like for rewards. So you get different diva token rewards depending on how much accumulative Steth and ETH is. Is. Is staked. And also. And you can see here, like, right now, we're in the ten to 20k tranche.
00:12:46.850 - 00:13:23.436, Speaker A: So you're getting 2.25 diva per day if you put in per ETH, right? So you can see here that you would get 2.25 diva tokens per day per, I think, like, one ETH, if I'm writing it correctly here. And then you can obviously put in more ETH as time goes on. And as I said yesterday, or maybe the day before, I said that it's really hard to know what you're going to get from this vampire attack because Diva does not have a price yet. But if you want to do a naive assumption on what Diva would be worth, you can work out the price. Now, I don't want to give investment advice here or give kind of.
00:13:23.436 - 00:13:50.326, Speaker A: Any kind of assumptions about what Diva is worth, but just for a thought experiment here, I'm just going to say a number just. Just to. Just to kind of give you an example of how you can work this out. So let's say at launch, divas fully diluted market cap is $100 million, right? Which is. I mean, it could be that it could be higher, could be lower. As I said, it's just an example here. And then there is a $1 billion total supply of diva, which means that each Diva token would be worth $0.10
00:13:50.326 - 00:14:26.316, Speaker A: if Diva was worth $100 million. Right? So at Diva, if you're looking at the reward rewards right now, you would be getting 2.25 diva kind of per day here. So times that by. By ten cents and times that by the amount of ETH that you're getting. And then you can kind of work out the dollar value here on what you're getting with this kind of vampire attack. If I'm reading this correctly, I may be reading it wrong, but that's how you would normally do it, right? You just assume a market cap, divide it by the total supply, you get the dollar amount, and then you'll be able to see the rewards that you're kind of getting here in terms of, like, diva tokens.
00:14:26.316 - 00:14:53.360, Speaker A: So it can be quite, quite lucrative for you if you want to do that. So you can go check out, um, check out this, uh, uh, this kind of, like, table here. For the tranches. I think I'm calculating it wrong because there is another column here that basically says in this tranche, 68 to 412. I don't know if that means you're getting 68 to 412 diva tokens per one east, depending on where you are in, in the tranche here. I I'm not. I'm not sure, to be honest.
00:14:53.360 - 00:15:10.248, Speaker A: Honestly, I don't know what that means there. Um, but, yeah, I mean, I'm. Maybe I'm going to have to look into that some more and see exactly how that payout works there. But once you get the actual figures, as I said, that's how you would. How you would work it out there. But, yeah, great to see the vampire attack continuing. And lighter's dominance has actually been still going down.
00:15:10.248 - 00:15:45.540, Speaker A: I mean, it's kind of hard for it to go down right now because there's no new ETH entering. The deposit queue is basically empty right now, but it has, has gone down, as I, as I kind of mentioned yesterday there. All right, so I think that the other biggest news of the last 24 hours, besides all that ETF news, was the announcement that Uniswap Labs is going to be putting a fee on their front end. So you guys know that Uniswap Labs runs the official Uniswap front end, the one that we've all been using for years now. You know what it. Whatever it is, app dot uniswap.org I think it is.
00:15:45.540 - 00:16:00.882, Speaker A: I just want to make sure that's the one so I don't send you guys to a phishing website. I never actually look at the URL because I have it. I have it. I have it bookmarked. But yeah, app dot uniswap.org is the, is the kind of property URL there. But that is going to have a 0.15%
00:16:00.882 - 00:16:43.694, Speaker A: swap fee on the, I guess, like, majority of volume that the tokens go through. So I think it applies to, like, ETH and wrapped ETH and wrapped bitcoin and stable coin. So obviously it covers most of the volume that passes through Uniswap here. Now, of course, this caused a bunch of drama within the community for a few different reasons. The first reason is that the uni token is kind of useless, right? There is no fee take on the Unitoken. And for years now, basically the Uniswap labs team has, says it's up to governance, when we know that's a meme because governance is controlled by the lab's team and also the VC's and the fee take token. Sorry, the fee switch on the token has not been turned on yet.
00:16:43.694 - 00:16:59.548, Speaker A: And then in comes uniswap labs and says, well, we're putting a 0.15% fee on our front end. That's not going to token holders at all. Token holders get nothing out of that. That's going directly to Uniswap Labs and their equity holders. So that's what pissed a lot of people off. Not necessarily.
00:16:59.548 - 00:17:26.266, Speaker A: I don't think people were annoyed about the fact that they're putting a fee on their front end, because I'm not even annoyed about that. I think that's just a logical thing for them to do. You know, if you're running the front end, if you're running the infrastructure for it, then, and you're not putting the fee on the, on the contracts themselves. And that's all well and good because the Uniswap protocol doesn't have this fee on it. Because the Uniswap protocol is decentralized and is immutable and is not owned by Uniswap Labs. It is immutable on Ethereum. Anyone can tap into it.
00:17:26.266 - 00:17:58.830, Speaker A: And there's various other front ends that you can use. And I think a lot of people are actually going to be using a non Uniswap labs front end now. I think really at this point, the official uniswap front end is used by probably noobs who don't know any better, and also retail investors who couldn't care less about, about fees, or DJ investors, I should say, that couldn't care less about fees because they're aping into meme coins. But. But honestly, all the more sophisticated, or at least in the know, people within crypto are not using Uniswap labs as front end anymore. They're using things like cow swap or matcha or one inch. Right.
00:17:58.830 - 00:18:31.300, Speaker A: These aggregators, because not only do they give you a much better price, but also now you're not going to be suffering or not suffering. You're not going to be paying this 0.15% swap fee. Just like if you're a more sophisticated crypto user, you're not going to be using metamask swap feature, which takes a 0.8% fee, right? You're going to be using one of these other kind of, I guess, front ends out there. And again, ultimately you can always interact with the Uniswap contracts using your own locally built front ends. But there is kind of issues around routing and finding the best route and stuff like that.
00:18:31.300 - 00:18:49.918, Speaker A: So you're better off just sticking to. For most people out there, you're better off sticking to things like cow swap and match. I mean, I'm personally an absolutely massive fan of cow swap. I use it for everything. It's always come through for me. It's never let me down. And yeah, I think that's what most people in the know are going to be doing.
00:18:49.918 - 00:19:40.454, Speaker A: But obviously Uniswap Labs is banking on the fact that there are a ton of new people out there that don't know any better and there's a ton of people who just care about convenience over anything else. And there's a ton of degens that are going to be using the Uniswap Labs front end, which is totally fine, but still unique token holders feel very shafted here because they haven't had a fee switch turned on for uni tokens four years now. And it feels like Uniswap Labs double dipped because not only do they get a portion of the tokens allocated to themselves from Genesis, they also get the, this kind of like front end fee which goes directly to them and their equity holders as well. And the equity holders are probably the same VC's that hold their, their tokens too. So yeah, that, that's kind of why it rides people the wrong way there. And I totally get that. But in the end, I think I'm going to talk, I actually going to talk about this with, with Eric Conner this week because we have another one of our drive thrus that we're going to record.
00:19:40.454 - 00:20:13.866, Speaker A: We're going to talk about how within tradfi fees actually are pretty much like race to the bottom and that, and Eric strongly believes that the same thing is going to happen within, within Defi. And I don't disagree with him. I do think that fees are going to be a race to the bottom, but in terms of timeframes, I think it's going to take a while. It's going to take until Defi is basically saturated, or at least on chain products have saturated the global population and it's as kind of like adopted or near as adopted as tradfi is today. Because unless it's in that world, you're always going to have noobs to fleece. Basically. That's what a lot of these fees rely on.
00:20:13.866 - 00:21:01.546, Speaker A: It just relies on naive people who don't know any better and don't know they can get a better deal elsewhere. But generally, yeah, I do agree with Eric on that, but we're going to discuss that more on, on the drive through this week. But just on the note about market share here, I saw an interesting tweet here from Beetle, who said, who works at research at the block, who said only about 35% to 40% of trades on Uniswap are being done through their front end. So. And it was 90% in 2019. Now, of course, this makes sense because obviously a lot more interfaces have come online for Uniswap over the last couple of years, especially aggregators. As you can see here, aggregators take up a huge market share and then there's unknowns as well, which I would assume are probably some sort of like, not, not aggregators, but like other interfaces that people are using to interact with Uniswap.
00:21:01.546 - 00:21:24.768, Speaker A: So I expect this number to probably drop 35% to 40%. Probably going to drop now that they've turned on the fee. But yeah, I mean, that's still a large chunk of change for them, that 0.15%, because if they're doing hundreds of millions of dollars of volume through there, or billions of dollars of volume through there, then obviously it's a big deal for them. And honestly, I don't fault them for this at all. As I said, it's their infrastructure, it's their front end. They also built the protocol.
00:21:24.768 - 00:22:06.120, Speaker A: But I think that the uni token holders feel very shafted. And honestly, you should feel shafted if you hold uni tokens, because when is that fee switch going to get turned on? Right? And them doing this front end switch just shows that maybe they're never going to vote in favor of that and maybe it will never get turned on. Me personally, I don't hold uni, haven't held it since the airdrop, basically, because speculating on that token accruing value from the fee switch is a huge risk. Obviously, it could be potentially, potentially be a huge reward as well, but the risk is too large for me to invest there. So uni, as a token is uninvestable to me because of that. And I think it's largely useless. And yeah, people holding it obviously feel snubbed by this, as they should.
00:22:06.120 - 00:22:35.856, Speaker A: But at the same time, I do not blame uniswap for wanting to take a fee on their front end. Uniswap labs, I should say, for wanting to take a fee on their front end, because it's their infrastructure. They run it, they maintain it, they, they put the work in for it, just like there are other, other front ends out there that will also take fees, just like metamask swaps feature takes a fee, just like centralized exchanges take fees. There are going to be fees everywhere, guys, for offering the service to you. But you do have choices. Just like in centralized exchanges, you have choices about which one you use and what fees you pay. You also have choices within Defi.
00:22:35.856 - 00:23:09.792, Speaker A: You have plenty of choices within Defi of how to interact with Uniswap contracts, for example, how to interact with other protocols out there, unless the fee is actually in protocol itself. If it's just at the front end, you can always get around it one way or another. So, yeah, anyway, I'll save the rest of my takes for the episode I'll do with Eric this week with the, with the drive through. Hope you guys can listen to that. We'll be out on Saturday. All right, so Rabbi Wallet has announced a new product today, which is Rabi desktop, which is a dedicated client for adapt security. So you can think of Rabi desktop as basically a very similar thing to Ledger live.
00:23:09.792 - 00:23:41.656, Speaker A: So Ledger Live is desktop desktop application that lets you interact with a bunch of different things on chain, such as interacting with, you know, defy, interacting with your different addresses on your hardware wallets, things like that. Well, Rabi desktop is a alternative to ledger live here. And honestly, it already looks a lot better. It's got a lot more app support. It seems like it definitely has more security. If it's anything like the Rabi Chrome extension, which I've talked about before, and it's got here, you can add new dapps yourself. You can add IPFS dapps, you can add local files for dapps.
00:23:41.656 - 00:24:27.082, Speaker A: You can have like your own front end running within, within Rabi here, which is very, very cool. And, yeah, it's got. Oh, yeah, it's got the security, same security features here because you can see that the, the rabbi wallet looks exactly the same as it does on the, on the web, web browser extensions there. So this is actually very, very cool because I don't think Ledger live is going to allow you to basically implement, I don't know if they already do this, but if they don't, I doubt they're going to do it where they allow you to add your own kind of ipfs or your own files and get around any kind of a front end fees that they want to take. As I was just talking about with Uniswap, Ledger Live is one of Ledger's premier products where they can capture revenue from it. Right, by charging fees for various different things. Whereas I don't think that's rabies kind of goal here.
00:24:27.082 - 00:24:53.790, Speaker A: Maybe it is. Maybe they will add this eventually if they want to monetize at some point. But yeah, it just seems like a very nice desktop interface for you to use if you want to use it through, pass through with your hardware wallet, stuff like that as well, and with your existing rabbi wallet there. So yeah, I'll list in the YouTube description below. You can check it out for yourself and go download rabi desktop. All right. So Josh Stark shared an interesting tweet today with a bunch of, with some statistics here.
00:24:53.790 - 00:25:14.360, Speaker A: He said a remarkably consistent metric over the last four years is the growth of non english traffic to ethereum.org dot. And you can see the chart in front of me how this has kind of grown over time. So you can see that this shows the ethereum.org non english percentage of page views. It's almost at 30%. And it has consistently been growing since, since this chart started, which is 2019.
00:25:14.360 - 00:25:54.016, Speaker A: So you can see here at the beginning of the chart in 2019, it was, what, 5%? Then it spiked up in early 2020 to around 17%. Just eyeing the chart here then it kind of like meandered around that for a while, until just recently, I think over the last, what is it, 18 months or so, it has spiked up and been up only since then, basically, to what we're at today at about 25% of page views on ethereum.org and non english page views. Now, of course, this is because of the massive effort the ethereum.org team has put into translating the ethereum.org website, not only doing it themselves, you know, the core team doing it themselves, but also getting the community involved. And I've talked a lot about this.
00:25:54.016 - 00:26:46.290, Speaker A: They've done their transathon in the past that I talked about on the refuel as well. But it's just really, really great to see that the ethereum.org website is being able to be consumed by various different languages around the world. Because, as I've said plenty of times in the past, like, yes, there are a lot of english users within crypto today, but there is a large part of the world that does not speak English and a large part of the world where English is not their first language. And especially in places that really, ethereum and crypto generally hasn't penetrated as much because obviously crypto is very US centric and Europe centric right now. But there are plenty of places, like in Asia, like in India, like in the Middle east, like in, like in Africa, where they're not speaking English as their first language or at all. And we need to be able to essentially make this stuff accessible to them not just ethereum.org,
00:26:46.290 - 00:27:03.194, Speaker A: but everything in crypto accessible to them. Because crypto is meant to be a global thing. Ethereum is meant to be a global network. It is not meant to be limited just to English speaking people. I mean, I personally only speak English. I can understand a little bit of Italian because my grandparents talk to me in Italian. Sometimes they can also speak a little bit of English.
00:27:03.194 - 00:27:39.068, Speaker A: But for me, like, I'm all English, right? But I'm not naive to the fact that I'm, I'm an actual outlier. I think. I think that most people around the world speak, speak two languages, and whether English is their first language or not is irrelevant to that, I guess. But they do speak two languages. I think it is definitely a very kind of like americanized and maybe, maybe australian view as well, where you just speak English. I think in America it's a bit different because obviously there is a large latin american community there's, which speaks Spanish and various other kind of like offshoots of that. But for the most part, it's very dominated by English.
00:27:39.068 - 00:28:02.650, Speaker A: Right. And a lot of people can only speak English, you know, at least fluently, whereas a lot of the world can't speak English at all. Maybe they can understand here and there. So we need to be able to translate the various different crypto things for them without them having to use Google Translate. Because Google Translate's fine, but it doesn't do things perfectly, especially when it comes to all the terminology we use within crypto and Ethereum. It's not going to do the job, that's for sure. So yeah, kudos to the ethereum.org
00:28:02.650 - 00:28:18.454, Speaker A: team for all the effort they've put into translating the website here, and the results speak for themselves in this chart. On that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
00:28:18.454 - 00:28:19.154, Speaker A: Bye.
