00:00:00.410 - 00:00:41.154, Speaker A: It's a sad fact of politics. Special interests capture decision making bodies and push their agendas, sometimes at the expense of everyone else. Crypto and decentralized protocols are no exception. See, for example, Ethereum founder Vitalik Buteran's writing about the issue with governance tokens and the controversies that occasionally flare up whenever a whale jumps into a vote at the last minute to flip the result. That debate came to the doorstep of the high temple of Ethereum, the all core developers meeting, in which a distributed group of software engineers consider proposals to improve the blockchain. Maybe you remember the merge. You know the biggest thing to happen to Ethereum, and maybe crypto writ large since Ethereum itself went live several years ago.
00:00:41.154 - 00:01:16.898, Speaker A: That happened because those present at an all core devs meeting decided it would happen and then did the hard work of actually making it happen. Over the past couple of days, it's been alleged a special interest has tried to influence decision making among Ethereum's core developers. On the flip side, the person in question speculated those core developers passed on his proposal out of some kind of anti company bias. It's a bit complicated, but it's also important. We'll unpack it all in today's video. Don't forget to like this video and subscribe to the defines channel for in depth DFI coverage. Thanks to Opelis for sponsoring this video.
00:01:16.898 - 00:01:50.906, Speaker A: More on them later. The quote unquote special interest here is uniswap. With more than 3 billion in total value locked, uniswap is the fifth largest DFI protocol in Ethereum. It's the largest decentralized exchange and handles more than half of all decentralized exchange volume, according to data from DFI llama. In October, the company behind the Uniswap protocol, Uniswap Labs, announced $165,000,000 Series B fundraise at a valuation of more than 1.6 billion. Uniswap Labs is supporting a proposed upgrade that would allow a forthcoming iteration of its protocol to save on Ethereum's transaction fees or gas.
00:01:50.906 - 00:02:44.106, Speaker A: That proposal, dubbed EIP 1153, was written by a prominent core developer, Alexey Sharp, before the first version of Uniswap launched in 2018. As Ethereum, core developers debated last Thursday which tech would make its way into Shanghai, Ethereum's first big postmerge upgrade, they brushed aside the uniswap favorite proposal, 1153. Hayden Adams, Uniswap's founder, saw bias in that decision. Core developers declined to include the upgrade in Shanghai, he wrote on Twitter Thursday, in big part because us and other projects pushed for it. Adams accused the core developers of working in a vacuum that explicitly rejects input and support from its biggest users. He pins the blame on a contingent of core developers who, quote, view contributions from projects and companies building on top as a threat to Ethereum. But few saw the omission of 1153 as an act of malice.
00:02:44.106 - 00:03:43.860, Speaker A: Dankrad Feist, a researcher at the nonprofit Ethereum foundation, said core developers simply do not register what you want and recommended that the group find some way to gather input from the community on priorities. I think, he continued, this is less about sticking it to companies and more about being scared that their own contributions don't make it in. Meanwhile, Twitter user Light clients told uniswap to get in line, saying it just wasn't considered important enough. Others were less generous. Would the proposal 1153 benefit anyone other than uniswap? Was the very fact that it was being considered a sign of bias toward one of the biggest companies in crypto? We'll get to that in a moment, but first word from our sponsor. Life as a web three indie worker is tough tracking multiple income sources, looking for healthcare, withholding taxes, always time Opolis is a digital employment coop made for indie workers by indie workers. Opolis provides pay stubs and annual w two s for proof of employment and offers affordable group healthcare benefits.
00:03:43.860 - 00:04:41.730, Speaker A: Also, Opolis members earn work tokens and share in profits for utilizing member services like running payroll and referring friends intrigued? Learn more at Opolis Co. Back to our story amid this debate, Scott Lewis, the founder of Defi Pulse, suggested uniswap had an unfair advantage in Ethereum governance. Ethereum governance is considering a rule change to give the next version of one of its biggest and most socially connected protocols a huge gas discount, he wrote. But with no good disclosures. We don't know how big the Uniswap V four discount will be, or how big a head start it's being gifted. Adam Cochrane, a crypto influencer, said the proposal aims to solve a real problem, but does so in a problematic manner. To summarize his 24 tweet argument, this change would make it, quote, cheap for uniswap users to spam a transaction onto the network and risk other people paying that gas fee in a socialized way in times of peak demand.
00:04:41.730 - 00:05:44.406, Speaker A: It could also give uniswap an unfair advantage, since the team building the next version of the Uniswap protocol may be working with this upgrade in mind, Cochrane wrote. And one of the listed use cases enabled by the upgrade is easier. Implementation of the know your customer requirements. So reviled by the crypto community for taking away one's ability to transact anonymously, Adams, Uniswap's founder, didn't mince words in his response, calling Cochrane a hack who spreads misinformation like almost no one else in crypto Twitter. After catching some flak for the unhelpful ad hominem, Adams pointed to an issue he took with Cochrane's thread, the notion that the change would make it cheap to spam a transaction and socialize gas costs. Moody Salem, a member of the Uniswap team, categorically denied that, as well as the suggestion uniswap had been working on KYC technology. For the time being, the Ethereum core developer team has committed to enabling the withdrawal of locked up ether in the blockchain's next upgrade, postponing other proposals with more traction than the one championed by Uniswap, such as EIP 48 44, which is expected to help Ethereum scale in a big way.
00:05:44.406 - 00:05:52.570, Speaker A: But as always, everything is going to be on the table the next time the core developers convene to determine next steps. And of course, the defiant will keep you posted.
