00:00:00.410 - 00:00:41.794, Speaker A: Hey everyone, join you here to your latest and something in near ecosystem. This is nearbytes and roll the intro. Today on the agenda we have a new data encryption tool for private information of storage on chain, details of near and Circle's announcement for USDC support near Google Cloud's partnership and details on metatransactions within the near ecosystem. With that, let's get started. First up is the near JS encryption box. An engineer for the near foundation wants to tackle the issue of storing information privately on chain. He recognizes the current solution to this issue is for webp developers to use decentralized solutions, just storing this data on a centralized database.
00:00:41.794 - 00:01:20.238, Speaker A: So now with the Near JS encryption box you can encrypt your data and store it on chain to enable users to protect their privacy. Check out the link in description below to learn more about how to use a near JS encryption box. Next up is the announcement of USDC support from Nier and Circle. Circle announced a partnership with Nier that will make USDC widely available in the near ecosystem. For developers, this means that they're able to integrate stablecoin payment flows into their javascript and rust based applications. Nier has announced a partnership with Google Cloud to provide tech support for near grant recipients and if you didn't know, Google Cloud provides the infrastructure for Near's RPC node provider to Pagoda, which is near's web3 star platform. This will allow developers to deploy code quickly, securely and seamlessly.
00:01:20.238 - 00:02:04.178, Speaker A: Pagoda has helped developers easily and rapidly launch decentralized applications on near through a library of preaudited templates and auto generated contract user interfaces. The director of digital assets in Google Cloud said, we'll be supporting near and be giving web3 developers the most secure, reliable, sustainable cloud infrastructure on which they can build and scale. This support will help better chances of new founders succeeding in web3 space, and if you're interested in applying for near grant, you can head over to near grants to apply today. Finally, let's discuss metatransactions on Nier. Details on Nier's metatransactions were announced in the procon meeting back in August. There will be an additional action attributed to the near account model functionality called delegate actions. Actions, if you don't know, are simply a list of things that a near account can do, like sending near to other accounts, deploying smart contracts to making subaccounts, and more.
00:02:04.178 - 00:02:44.382, Speaker A: This new delegate actions option will allow for a near account to perform an action that contains other actions or transactions. This is what encompasses the idea of metatransactions as a whole. One of the more favorite use cases of metatransactions are state. As such, in protocol metacotransactions will allow for a third party account to initiate and pay transaction fees on behalf of the user account. This design provides the easiest way for developers to onboard and pay for user transactions with no added complexity to the user. This also means that a user account may not even need to exist on chain and that a pussy account can be used in place of a user account. If you are interested in reading more about metatransactions and their advantages and drawbacks, you can read more about it in the link to NEp 366.
00:02:44.382 - 00:03:04.740, Speaker A: In other words, metatransactions found in the description below. Next up we have the end. That's all I have for you guys today. Thank you guys so much for watching. Please remember to like subscribe and comment below if we want to see more up from nearby with that. Have a great and wonderful day. Close.
