00:00:00.200 - 00:00:12.694, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Lego Refuel, where you capture the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Astano. Today, 20 June 2024. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing the last couple of days of episodes, everyone. I've been sick.
00:00:12.694 - 00:00:39.284, Speaker A: You can probably hear it in my voice. I've had a mild cold, not a fever or anything, just a sore throat and a cough, which obviously doesn't allow me to do the refuel if I'm just in a coughing fit the entire time. That's not gonna make for a very good episode. But, yeah, hopefully I'll be, you know, back, I guess, like tomorrow and I won't have to take another day off. I'm feeling okay. It's just I've still got a little bit of a sore throat and a cough, but that's why I missed the last two days of episodes. But back today, and I'm going to dive right into the news.
00:00:39.284 - 00:01:20.154, Speaker A: So I think the biggest news over the last two days was this announcement from consensus that the SEC has pulled its case against consensus, so basically retracted its case against consensus about investigating if ETH is a security or investigating Ethereum 2.0. And you can see here, consensus put a tweet out announcing this. Now, obviously this is big news because it's just another win for, I guess, crypto and another loss for the SEC. The SEC is no stranger to losses. I put a tweet out saying that if I'm bullish on anything when it comes to Gary Gensler, it's his ability to lose crypto related cases. And it seems like he just keeps racking up these losses. Now, of course, technically, this isn't a quote unquote loss.
00:01:20.154 - 00:02:10.044, Speaker A: It's not like they went to court and the SEC lost in court, but it is a loss in the sense that they brought this case against consensus and essentially was basically a few weeks later, we're like, okay, well, I don't think we're going to do that anymore. You know, we don't think we're going to do that anymore. Let's just pull this case now. It's kind of funny because you look back four weeks ago, or maybe, you know, you could say like one to two months ago, the FUD around ETH and Ethereum was like at its peak, right? Everyone was going on about how it's going to get classified as a security. There were all these rumors flying that the SEC was trying to classify ETH as a security and people were saying, oh, the ETF's are going to get denied because of it. And then, of course, you recall if you were watching back, you know, a couple months ago, the whole time I was saying that we literally had nothing to go off except of rumors and speculation and, quote, unquote, sources, right. There was nothing official.
00:02:10.044 - 00:03:05.766, Speaker A: And then obviously the ETH, ETF's were approved. Right? Like, you know, a lot of us in the Ethereum community believe they would be approved. And then this consensus suit or this SEC suit against consensus has now been retracted. I don't think that's a coincidence, to be honest. I think that the SEC, while they haven't explicitly stated that, they don't believe either security, for reasons that I believe are quite obvious. If you kind of dig into, dig into the, the background here, therefore, you recall that the SEC has active cases against Kraken, Coinbase and finance over them being unregistered securities exchanges, as basically saying that there's a list of these crypto assets, their securities, and that's why they're going after these, these exchanges, because they're not registered securities brokers. Now, of course, if they were to capitulate on ETH and basically say that ETH not a security that acts as precedent for these other tokens.
00:03:05.766 - 00:03:55.298, Speaker A: So they don't want to set any precedent here, at least that's my understanding. But it doesn't matter at this point. What matters is the fact that even though they're not explicitly saying that they don't think ETH is, is not a security, their actions speak for themselves. Approving the futures, ETf's approving the spot, ETF's going after consensus. And then retracting this case here, the fact that ETH has been treated as a commodity by the CFTC for many, many years now. The fact that, you know, I think the SEC made a case against Coinbase where they said that Ethereum or ETH could be considered a security or a token, can be considered a security if it has an ecosystem around it. Well, if you were really, you know, believe that, if you thought that that was a strong case to be made, then, you know, why did you basically go after consensus, right? So, I mean, like, if you take all this together, it's just really, really positive for Ethereum.
00:03:55.298 - 00:04:25.733, Speaker A: It's really positive on the regulatory front here. And I should actually, I guess, like back, backtrack a little bit here and make clear that the consent, the SEC filed a wells notice against consensus, I don't think they ever actually filed a suit against them. It was a wells notice that basically said, hey, we're going to sue you. And then consensus was like, well, screw you, we're going to sue you first. And that's what they did. And then obviously consensus doing that. Basically, I don't, I'm going to say it scared the SEC, but they probably like, oh, wow, okay, let's back off here for whatever reason it is.
00:04:25.733 - 00:04:57.696, Speaker A: Now, of course, that doesn't mean that SEC can't come back another time against consensus or other ethereum related companies and try to, you know, classify as a security and so on and so forth. I just don't think that's going to happen. I really don't think that's going to happen. We've seen the political wind shift. We've seen the shift in, you know, tradfi getting really involved with Ethereum now with the spot ETF's. But beyond that, you know, tokenization that Larry Fink's talking about all the time, the fact that they want to build a new tokenized stock exchange. I mean, the, the big money is basically saying, like, this stuff's here to stay.
00:04:57.696 - 00:05:30.382, Speaker A: This stuff is stuff that we want to build on. We want to innovate in this area. So essentially, like, stop fucking with it. I think that's essentially what they're saying. And I'm not one for conspiracy theories, but I know, I don't know if there's been like actual communication between some of these big money plays and the regulators and the politicians, but for sure there would have to be something. You know, you can imagine that even if there's no direct communication, Larry Fink putting so much of his weight behind crypto would be signal enough to the politicians to basically say, hey, guys, this crypto thing is real. You know, the tokenization thing's real.
00:05:30.382 - 00:06:09.096, Speaker A: There's a lot of money here. Stop fucking with it. So even if there's nothing explicitly said, I feel like there is a lot of, I guess, you know, background stuff going on here, which is incredibly positive for all of crypto, but for ethereum as well. Because remember I spoke, I think, a few weeks ago on the refuel where I basically said that the fact that ETH now has regulatory clarity means that it opens ETh up to a bunch of different investors that couldn't even buy ETH before on an exchange. Like not even just waiting for the ETF. They couldn't at risk of ETH being labeled a security or something like that, couldn't justify the risk because to them it's like, okay, well, if we buy ETH, right. These are the most conservative of investors, by the way.
00:06:09.096 - 00:07:04.908, Speaker A: Guys like this is a financial advisors and people who manage other people's money. And this money is like not looking for high risk kind of things, looking for very low risk conservative investments here. But when you looked at ETH, like, not only did you have the general risk of crypto, but then you had the regulatory risk on top where essentially, if, you know, these people believe that the SEC was going to, going to label ether security, that would mean that liquidity for ETH would dry up because a lot of the places that listed Ethan delist ETH and then be very, very hard to essentially kind of get out of the position. But also you would expect its price to absolutely crater if that was to happen. So that's a huge risk there. So that risk is pretty much gone now, even as I said, even though the SEC isn't explicitly saying that ETH is not a security, their actions speak louder than their words ever could. So that risk is now gone, which means that ETH is opened up to a bunch of new investors here, not just via the ETF's, but you know, but via everything basically.
00:07:04.908 - 00:07:31.684, Speaker A: And Ethereum as a technology is also opened up here. So that's really, really cool to see. So I'm super excited, of course, about that, about all of that. I'm very, very excited to see crypto racking up more regulatory wins. And I can't wait to see us do more there. Now, of course, on the topic of ETF's, we had a little bit of movement this week on the s one forms. So Nate, Jurassic here said, here come the spot eth s one amendments, this one for bit wise, assume others will trickle in over the next few days.
00:07:31.684 - 00:08:13.614, Speaker A: So from what I can see, there weren't really any major changes here. There was a few kind of little changes essentially with these things to be expected, obviously, because we know that the ETH ETF's are basically a copy paste of the BTC ETF's because they don't have staking. So it's pretty much the same thing, same custody, you know, same disclosures and so on and so forth. Yeah, but I mean this is just more positive news, I guess. But at the same time, it's like nothing surprising. We all know the ETF's are going live for trading very, very shortly now, like within the next two weeks, probably maybe even sooner than that. You know, there is a timeline where these go trading next week or even like there is actually a timeline where these things start trading tomorrow, Friday.
00:08:13.614 - 00:08:30.938, Speaker A: But, like, probably not. But, you know, there's not, it's not impossible. But I would say that, you know, we could see this next week. Essentially, we don't have to wait until July 2 or July 8. The two dates that have been thrown around here, it could happen next week. I would prefer it to happen in July, to be honest. I have a busy week next week, and I don't want to.
00:08:30.938 - 00:08:53.527, Speaker A: I don't want it to happen. And then, like, I'm glued to my computer because I got so much other stuff I need to be doing, and I get FOMo sometimes. So me personally, just, like, selfishly would like it to happen on, like, July 2 or July 8. I don't care if my predictions wrong. It's more the fact that I'd love to be able to just sit on my computer and be locked in without having to be distracted by things. But next week, I'm quite busy with real life stuff. So, you know, if it goes live, whatever, I'll starve my phone.
00:08:53.527 - 00:09:27.544, Speaker A: I'll be like, oh, you know, look what's happening here, what's happening on Twitter, what's happening with the price so on and so forth there. But, yeah, as I said, like, this stuff is fully expected. No surprises here, and I'm not expecting any surprises, guys. Once these are all approved and everything's go, we will see these things start trading within one day of that. And I'm most curious to see what the inflows are like. That's still my number one kind of question right now, is what the inflows are going to be like for ETH, especially versus BTC. Now, as I explained the other day, I don't expect them to be as bombastic as BTC because the ETH ETF's are launching in a very, very different environment.
00:09:27.544 - 00:10:07.744, Speaker A: But there was actually a kind of ETF that was applied for camera. Who applied for this? I think it was today or yesterday where they wanted to do a BTC and ETH ETF in the same vehicle here. Now, they weighted it 70 30. So basically, market cap weighted 70% BTC, 30% ETH. Now, I think a lot of speculation around the ETH ETF inflows is basically that they're going to see, you know, 30% may give or take a few percent, right, of inflows because that's this market cap weighted. That's how these financial advisors are going to think about these things. They're like, okay, well, if we have, you know, total of, like, 5% allocated to crypto out of a whole portfolio, probably not even 5%.
00:10:07.744 - 00:10:43.216, Speaker A: They're probably at like 2% or something like that. If we have 2% of our portfolio or of all the money that we have allocated to assets going into crypto, well, then 70% of that is going to go into BTC, 30% into ETH. I think that's going to be like that for the foreseeable future, and there will be rebalancing here. So if the ethics rate BTC ratio goes up and its market cap becomes a greater share of BTC's market cap, you can see that shift to maybe like 60 40 or 50 50. In an ideal world, I want to see it at 50 50, and it's not too far from here. I think if the ETH BTC ratio was to go up to about 0.08 ish, that would be 50 50 split there.
00:10:43.216 - 00:11:11.082, Speaker A: So how cool would that be? All the money going into the ETF's would be split 50 50 here, or most of it. So, you know, and we'll actually get to see the effects of that on either as both a smaller cap asset but also a much more scarce asset. You know, people go on about BTC being this really, really scarce asset, but, hey, ETH is even scarcer than that because of the fact that we have ultrasound money. Right. With the net deflationary burn, ETH is a productive asset that gets locked up in things like staking. So this is vanilla Eth, guys. Like you got to remember, as well.
00:11:11.082 - 00:11:32.536, Speaker A: People say, oh, you know, there's ETH locked up in staking, but people can just buy the LST's. So, you know, in. In reality, it's not locked. It's like, okay, that that's true for, like, crypto natives. It's true for people that are more involved on centralized exchanges, maybe, but it's not true for the ETF's because the ETF's can't buy that. The ETF's can only buy vanilla eth. They can't buy LSD's.
00:11:32.536 - 00:12:01.104, Speaker A: Now, of course, you know, market makers, whoever else, or people who want to take profits can sell the LST's to eat, and then ETH gets unlocked and sold into the market. But we'll see that happening through the. Through the secondary markets or through the beacon chain as well. And people withdraw Eth from there. So when it comes to the actual eth being bought here, it's coming from the exchanges. And the exchanges don't have much eth left. And it's not just exchanges it's also just like the vanilla ethnic pool generally, but it is incredibly scarce pool here, especially below all time high.
00:12:01.104 - 00:12:24.188, Speaker A: I mean, I don't know, like, I'm not going to call anyone. I know I tweeted out about this a little while ago where I said that anyone selling below all time high is crazy. I kind of, that was a bit tongue in cheek. You're not crazy for doing that. You take profits when you need to. I'm not going to judge you on that. But I just don't imagine there's many people wanting, wanting to take profits before all time high on ETH, especially because it's like a thing of, well, you know, BTC already went to all time high.
00:12:24.188 - 00:13:10.472, Speaker A: It's going to get there and then we expect all this bullish energy to come over the next maybe year or so. It doesn't make sense to sell here if you expect eth to go to ten, you know, 1520k. I'm not saying it's going to happen, but as a calculus that you do selling at the five k all time high, when you know there is a good chance it could go to ten k and beyond from here, I doesn't really make much sense there. And of course this is going into timing the market and stuff like that. But hey, a lot of people think like this, and I'm trying to put myself in the mindset of those people because for me, I don't really think about this because you guys know I'm not planning to sell my Eth. So for me, I look at the price and I'm like, okay, yeah, whatever, cool, cool. Um, but I like, I like the price going up for many different reasons, as I've explained before, not just for myself, because I own Eth, obviously, but it's just, it's better for the ethereum ecosystem for ETH to become more and more valuable.
00:13:10.472 - 00:13:47.702, Speaker A: And I don't think there's any doubt that that's going to happen there. But yeah, we're going to see what the, what the flows are like when these things start trading. I'm super excited to finally get an answer to that question and hopefully put to bed that narrative that was started by one of the Bloomberg guys that eat these small potatoes compared to BTC. I don't think so. And, you know, maybe it's not going to happen in the first month or few months or something where ETh might not have the flows we'll expect them to have, but over the coming years, I do expect ETh to have a very strong flow, you know, especially even compared to BTC because it's really just going to be Ethan BTC for a while here. So I'm excited for all of that. But anyway, enough on that sort of stuff.
00:13:47.702 - 00:14:11.950, Speaker A: Let's move on to some core dev related stuff. So Terrence has compiled an faq for the top EPBS questions, so he's going to be adding to this. I think this is like a living document here, but this is quite detailed. So if you have been interested in epbs, what it is, I mean, I've talked about it a bunch of times on the radio before, but maybe you're still confused about it. Maybe you don't know what all the moving parts are. I certainly don't. I'm certainly not an expert on it.
00:14:11.950 - 00:14:44.996, Speaker A: I'm just mentioning it for you guys because it is something important that's been in research for quite a while and may make it into the protocol sometime next year. So yeah, you can go give this faq a read. It's not too long, but it does answer the most pressing questions that I've seen on, on Twitter about this. So definitely go check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below, but not much more to say other than that since it's just a post that I want you guys to check out there. Second, we have a new round of updates from Josh Rudolph on Verkle implement implementation or Verkultree implementation here. A lot of stuff happening, guys, in the, in the background here.
00:14:44.996 - 00:15:13.010, Speaker A: I know that Verkle doesn't get too much attention because of the fact that it's still pretty far away to go live on Mainnet. It's probably going to go live. I mean, well, we hope it could go live late next year. So it's still quite, quite far away here. And it's also not something that can be considered, I guess, user facing. You guys know, I like to bucket things into like protocol only versus user facing or not protocol only, but like protocol facing versus user facing updates. This is definitely protocol facing, but at the same time, it has a lot of downstream effects for users.
00:15:13.010 - 00:15:46.076, Speaker A: So that's why I'm excited about it. And it's also something that's been coming for quite a while as well there. So yeah, you can go check out all these updates in Josh's tweet. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do. So it is quite long tweet here, but it gives you a lot of, you know, context and updates on what's happening in something that, you know, you may not be paying that much attention to, but I think Josh is the best follow when it comes to vocal trees right now. So definitely go follow him and check out his tweet. All right, so something that kind of came out of nowhere, and this is news from like an hour ago.
00:15:46.076 - 00:16:17.014, Speaker A: So layer Zero is doing their token airdrop today. They're like a bridging protocol. I'm not an expert on them. I haven't. I don't talk about them very much on. On the refuel, and I'm not talking about them today to promote their airdrop or anything like that. What I want to talk about is the fact that ten minutes before claims went live for the layer zero token, they announced that they are going to donate a portion, or I guess, like all of these minting fees or these claiming fees from the token claim to the protocol guild.
00:16:17.014 - 00:16:46.900, Speaker A: So they're estimating that this is going to result in $18.5 million donated to the protocol guild. Now, the way this works is basically to claim your Zro tokens or your layer zero tokens, users must donate $0.10 in USDC, USDT, or native ETH per Zro token. That's really new. I don't think I've seen a project do this before, but also just. What? It's weird, right? Like, for me, like, I'm very happy that layer zero is doing this, but I haven't really seen layers zero be like.
00:16:46.900 - 00:17:15.340, Speaker A: I guess you could call it a theorem aligned in terms of signaling that they're all about public goods and they're all about, you know, the protocol guild and stuff like that. I haven't seen that in the past, so that's why it's kind of come as a surprise to me. Secondly, the fact that they announced this, like, ten minutes before claims open, it's not a rug, but like, come on, guys, you could have announced it a bit sooner than that. Like, it's a bit random that they did that. I just thought it was out of nowhere, and. And it just a bit weird to me. And thirdly here, it's interesting that they've done it per token.
00:17:15.340 - 00:17:47.604, Speaker A: If I'm reading this correctly, if you had like 1000 to claim, for example, you would have to pay $10 in one of these tokens, which goes to the protocol guild in order to claim the full amount. So it's not just for that hundred, it's not $0.10 for the hundred tokens. It's ten cents per token, which is obviously $10 here. So an interesting approach. And another thing I think users were a little bit upset about where they're just like, okay, one, why did you announce this so. So, you know, so late, I guess, and ten minutes before the.
00:17:47.604 - 00:18:25.912, Speaker A: The claims went live. And two, why is it per token as well? So, I mean, I'm not really complaining too much here, because I do enjoy that this is not going to the team, this is going to the protocol guild. But, yeah, there are a little bit of funny things here that could have been done better. So, you know that I'm just putting this out there for any teams listening to, to the refuel or for any people out there who are working with teams that are doing a token. I want to do something like this. I think it's an interesting mechanism, but the execution needs to be done better. And by the mechanism, I mean the mechanism of getting people to donate to the protocol guild via token, claiming it probably shouldn't be per token, that's not really going to work for everything.
00:18:25.912 - 00:18:50.630, Speaker A: I think layer zero doesn't have, like, a huge supply or something like that. Like, imagine if you have a protocol that has, like, a 10 billion. A 10 billion supply, and there's, like, I don't know, a billion of that is being airdropped. That's head math. $100 million or something like that. Now, that'd be cool to go to the protocol guild, but I don't know if you. I don't know if users are going to fork out that much collectively for these tokens.
00:18:50.630 - 00:19:19.962, Speaker A: Maybe. Maybe in the height of the bull market they will, but it just feels very kind of weird there. So I think that per token probably doesn't make sense, but this can be experimented with. You could basically do a thing where it's like, okay, well, you'll do a claim, and essentially, with that claim, you'll send, like, $1 to the protocol guild, and then you'll be able to claim all of your tokens. Now, let's just say you have, like, I don't know, 600,000 addresses. Like the recent Zksync airdrop. That's a $$1,000 that goes to the protocol guild.
00:19:19.962 - 00:20:14.396, Speaker A: Yes. It's less than what you would have done per token, but if feels, I guess, like, better overall, right? I don't know, it just feels more honest overall. And I should mention here that this, as I said, like, this is the first time I've seen this done for a token kind of airdrop, but this has been done by the power community for quite a while now. So you guys will know that a lot of the times when you're claiming a PO app, especially if you're doing it from ETH stake during their kind of live stream calls that they do for Ethereum network upgrades. Essentially what they do is they say, hey, can you donate a small amount to this address and then we'll send you your popular so these things can be experimented with. And definitely it speaks to what Vitalik was going on about, I think, a few weeks ago where he basically said that, yeah, it's fine to do like permissionless stuff on chain like celeb coins, meme coins, but it will be really cool if a portion of that was donated to the protocol guild because you're doing like regen finance rather than just like pure Djen finance here. And I think, you know, layer zeros.
00:20:14.396 - 00:21:09.330, Speaker A: What they've done here definitely falls into that, where obviously people are wanting this token because they're speculating on it and they've been airdrop farming, it's. So why not get or direct some of it to towards the protocol guild? I'm all for that, but I think this mechanism generally should definitely be experimented with more and should definitely be, I guess, like iterated on more in a way that doesn't make it feel like the users are being slighted or it's, you know, dishonest or it's ten minutes before the claim goes live. There's just, yeah, as I said, like, I like the idea overall here, the execution leaves a lot to be desired. Now, one other thing on the layer zero airdrop, I wanted to point out as well. So this is happening on arbitrum one. And actually, if you go to roll up WTF, which tracks the real time usage of l two s or and l three s on ethereum, you can actually see that arbitrum one's TPS is at 54 at time of recording. I saw this spike to 100 before.
00:21:09.330 - 00:21:47.644, Speaker A: I think it went even higher than that. Now, this is where the roll up WTF website comes in handy and is really, really interesting, is when you can actually know that there's a massive event happening on one of these roll ups, and you can go here and see what the real time TPS looks like and where it kind of goes to, which I thought was really, really cool. Now, on this website as well, I do want to point out that you might see at the top left here, it's like 300 tps across all of these chains. Right now, the number one chain is xi. You can see here, which is doing over 100 tps this is not an l two. This is not even a roll up. This is an l three on top of arbitram one using off chain da.
00:21:47.644 - 00:22:16.036, Speaker A: I would love on the website to be able to get rid of l three s and just have l two s or get rid of l two s and just have l three s and kind of filter out those sorts of things, because an l three and l two are very different, especially when. When it comes to having off chain da as well. And on that note as well, I'd love to filter out everything that's not a true roll up. It's not using ethereum l one for data availability here. So we'll see. They're gonna keep updating this site. I'm sure that's gonna be a feature that.
00:22:16.036 - 00:22:43.204, Speaker A: That gets put there or something that gets put there soon. But yeah, this is my new favorite site to track basically anything happening in real time on. On roll ups. I don't think there has been something like this before, so. Yeah, really glad that this exists for this right now. All right, speaking of l two s bases gas limit has been raised yet again. So as of yesterday, the average fees for different types of transactions on base collapsed again.
00:22:43.204 - 00:23:09.020, Speaker A: And a Unisop trade is now very, very cheap. It is a fifth of a cent here. USDC transfer is almost as low as a 10th of a cent, and an ETH transfer is even lower than that. I believe if I'm looking at this correctly, it's like one 20th or something of a cent. So very, very cheap. Guys like, extremely cheap here. And it's great to see that base is continuing to raise their gas limit in order to scale out the execution side of things.
00:23:09.020 - 00:23:43.004, Speaker A: Since data is not the bottleneck for base and hasn't been for quite a while, and isn't the bottleneck for any roll ups right now, because blobs are near capacity, but they don't, you know, they're not, like, over capacity for long periods of time. I remember, I think on the last refuel I highlighted that we were over capacity because of the ZK sync airdrop. And you can actually see here on Hill Dobby's dashboard that we're over capacity right now again. So we're over target, I should say so over the three. Three blobs per block target. But this is due to, I believe, the airdrop of layer zero, because it's happening on arbitrage one there. But you can see that we're hugging the target guys.
00:23:43.004 - 00:24:23.226, Speaker A: Like we're, you know, some days we're like spiking a little bit briefly over it coming back down, but we're basically there and we're not even in like a, I guess, like volatile period right now. You know, prices are ranging. It's sideways action happening right now. Yeah, there's some activity here and there. But I mean, what, once that activity starts picking up even a little bit, we're going to be permanently over the target here. So that's going to be very interesting to see what happens to the fees then, because then the fee bottleneck again goes to data, which l two s themselves or the Rops themselves do not have control over anymore or essentially don't have direct control over it because they don't have control over blobs. They can't just edit and the blobs, as they say, fit, but they do have control over how often they post blobs.
00:24:23.226 - 00:25:00.522, Speaker A: They have control over the compression that they do on the blobs and other kind of tactics that they can use to make sure that their blob footprint is lower in order for fees to be overall lower here. But, yeah, guys, like, we're hugging it right now. It's just, it's crazy just seeing how it's, it's grown so steadily, too. It just really is showing once again that the roll up thesis, the, you know, with couple with blobs coupled with the full dank shouting roadmap is really playing out in a beautiful way. And, you know, I'm actually curious to see what this looks like in, in 510 years. Like, is off chain da just made obsolete one day by this? I don't think so necessarily, but I do think off chain Da is a niche. It's.
00:25:00.522 - 00:25:15.290, Speaker A: It's commoditized already or da generally is commoditized. But I think that off chain da ends up being a niche. And maybe it really just exists for those. Really. I guess, like, I'm not going to call it like, high performance need use cases. Or maybe that's. That's the way to put it.
00:25:15.290 - 00:25:40.706, Speaker A: Like gaming, for example, and NFT stuff. Maybe it's just reserved for that. But other than that, yeah, I don't really see off chain da being like this huge thing and not something that generates huge amounts of revenue either. I feel like the theorem l one is going to be that, especially with the full dank shouting roadmap for the most valuable l two s out there. The very valuable kind of roll ups generally. But yeah. Anyway, cool to say this.
00:25:40.706 - 00:26:24.298, Speaker A: Cool to see base raising their gas limit again. They're going to keep doing this as, as time goes on. All right, so last up here on the l two front as well. A tycho, as you guys know, is a based roll up, and they have their permissionless as well, which means that anyone can propose on propose a Taiko block. So it's not just one centralized sequencer that's doing this. There are currently twelve unique proposers that are permissionlessly proposing taiko blocks. So this, I guess, like, in a roundabout way, not in like the full definite way, but in a, in a roundabout way and like a proof of concept way, should kill the fud of centralized sequences because, like, it's not difficult for us to decentralize these things.
00:26:24.298 - 00:26:57.748, Speaker A: And once they're, they're out there, people want to propose blocks, they want to be sequences. I want to permissionlessly propose blocks here. Now, of course, Tyco is a bit different because it is a based roll up. So it's using the l one for proposals. But that doesn't mean that people can't with it with a sequencer when, when it's open source and when it's permissionless, people can't run the sequencer and do the same thing here. So, yeah, I mean, this is just very cool. Again, once again, like, I guess some plays out with that proves out that thesis, I should say, on, on what we're seeing here with the l two s.
00:26:57.748 - 00:27:30.454, Speaker A: And I'm just gonna bring up l two beat here as well, because if you kind of look out, I'm gonna go down to taiko here. Tycho is definitely not the full green yet. As you guys know, full green requires a stage two decentralization. They're even stage one yet. They're stage zero right now. But they do have the permissionless validation. So it's, it's when you, when you look at these things, when you look at the stages, you have to look at the pie chart because different L2s will have different sections of the pie chart filled out, which may or may not make them, you know, stage zero or stage one or stage two.
00:27:30.454 - 00:28:01.374, Speaker A: You can see here that optimism actually has four out of five green on op main net. Arbitrum one has three out of five green, with one yellow and one red. But op mainnet is only considered stage one, still the same as arbitrum because they've got this red exit window here. So there's no exit window, essentially, for op mainnet right now. There's not none of that for arbitrary one either. And their state validation. The reason why it is orange yellow here is because it's not permissionless.
00:28:01.374 - 00:28:22.156, Speaker A: So there's a lot of nuance here. And you definitely check out l two beat for that nuance. But, yeah, and there's a lot of nuance behind what Taiko is doing as well. So I just thought it was cool. I just wanted to highlight that for you guys. I think that's very, very important to keep the, I guess, like, pressure on the teams as well. I keep highlighting their competitors doing this, too, because we need to decentralize out the l two s.
00:28:22.156 - 00:28:37.596, Speaker A: We're on that path to get there, but we shouldn't rest until it's actually, actually happened here. So. Yeah, but again, I think that's going to be it for the news. But. But there's a but. I've got a few minutes here. I wanted to talk a little bit about the markets.
00:28:37.596 - 00:29:41.822, Speaker A: Again, not too long about this because I don't like talking about the markets too much, as you guys know. But one thing I will say is that I was looking at, I guess, the chart today, long term chart, the actually, the long term BTC chart going all the way back to 2012, I believe it was, or 2013. And the reason I was doing this is because there's this, I guess, like, very popular adage within financial markets generally, but definitely within crypto, where during this summer, northern hemisphere summer period, the market tends to be quiet generally. And this even happens during raging bull markets. So if you go back all the way to, like, 2012 and you look at what's happening during the summer there, it's, it's, you know, it's, it's mostly kind of sideways here. You go back and you look at 2013, which, by the way, was a raging bull market. BTC went up to $160 in April, then came down to $73, so went down 50%, more than 50% by July and then creeped back up and didn't get back to 160 until October.
00:29:41.822 - 00:30:03.732, Speaker A: So from April to October, keep these, keep these months in mind, guys. April to October, BTC was going sideways in a raging bull market, mind you, like, 2013 was. It was a raging bull market then. Then let's just skip ahead to the next one. I've got the chart in front of me here. Maybe I should bring the chart up for you guys to see it on your screen here. So I'm just looking at the, the BLX, which looks at the all time BTC chart on the, on the weekly here.
00:30:03.732 - 00:30:30.584, Speaker A: So if we go to 2017, I believe it is here. So 2017, you kind of look what happens here. Like, it's not as. As bad as it was in like 2013, but in 2017, you can see that the price from, like June here to around, I guess, October, it's not doing too much. It's not going like, strictly sideways, but it's kind of like struggling. Right. You can see here that from the top to the, to the basically top here, it's up like 50%.
00:30:30.584 - 00:30:50.050, Speaker A: So it's not up that much. But then after that, it went up like over almost 600%, essentially, to end the year out there. And then you go into, I guess, the next period, which is 2020 here. Sideways again. Right. And now. Now in the, in this year again, we are sideways that whole period there.
00:30:50.050 - 00:31:23.290, Speaker A: So the reason I bring this up is because usually during, as I said, usually during those summer months, particularly if you want to take a wide band here and go April to October, it's not very volatile. It's not very, I guess, like, exciting within the crypto ecosystem because of the fact that people are outdoors doing things because it's warmer. Right. That's they're not stuck at home doing, you know, and it's not colder at home. Now, of course, I'm just looking at BTC here because you're gonna have periods of outperformance in other assets during summer as well. It doesn't apply to all assets equally. But I treat BTC as, like the.
00:31:23.290 - 00:31:54.906, Speaker A: The index. Both BTC and ETH is the index for the whole crypto mark here generally. So when you look at that, that's, that's a good way, I think, to look at it there. But in saying that, and the reason why I bring this up is because if you imagine that this is accumulation here on BTC, like, I'm looking at the period from, I guess, where is this from? From March to today, which has been 105 days. If you assume that this is gonna last till, I don't know, not October, because I started in March. Let's go to, like September so. Or.
00:31:54.906 - 00:32:39.724, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, the start of September here. So that's 182 days. There's another 82 days ahead of us. If you assume that BTC is going to do that based on historical patterns, just go sideways a bit and then trek up from there, that is kind of very close now. And it can probably start going up again before that, especially given that we have a lot of things on the horizon that are bullish, like, obviously the ETF, but also possible rate cuts in macro, which tends to make things bullish for people that trade based on that news and so on and so forth. So when you look at this, the TLDR here, why I bring this up is that there is no need to be bearish. We're literally, it may not be the four year cycle, but we're basically playing out similar kind of market cycles that we've had in the past, just on a rather accelerated timeline, at least on BTC, due to the ETF's.
00:32:39.724 - 00:33:04.552, Speaker A: And then when it comes to the other assets, I mean, ETH is the same. Eth mostly kind of is on the same footing as BTC. Once it has the ETF's, it'll be on equal footing here. If I go to ETh USD, I mean, the chart very much looks very similar to BTC. Like, you can see here, it's very similar to BTC. And then you can even look at, like, others, which is all of the, no, sorry, not others. Total three, which is the crypto total market cap, excluding BTC and ETh.
00:33:04.552 - 00:33:28.084, Speaker A: It's not, I mean, it's. It's weaker overall, but it's still, like kind of up here as well. And that is just doing the same thing. It's kind of, I guess, like trending sideways. And it's probably gonna, you know, after summer, if the pattern follows, it's gonna go up from there. Now, of course, none of this is investment advice, but none of this is technical analysis either. I'm just showing the charts to illustrate my point about those summer lull periods, as it's known in financial markets.
00:33:28.084 - 00:33:53.732, Speaker A: Again, this is not a unique insight. This has been around for a very long time, predates crypto by a very long time, many, many decades, if not hundreds of years at this point of that being a phenomenon there, and it makes total sense. So I think that if you're bored with the market right now, and you live in the northern hemisphere and it's warmer, you are probably a good idea to get outside and touch grass. I am unfortunately not in summer. Right now. Where I am in Australia, where I live, it is winter. It is the depths of winter.
00:33:53.732 - 00:34:14.694, Speaker A: It's like zero degrees overnight or like one degree celsius overnight during the day. It's like ten. Don't know what that is in freedom units. I guess I'll look it up for you guys so you don't have to look it up. 1010 degrees in fahrenheit. It's a 50 fahrenheit for you guys out there, I should say freedom units, right. But, yeah, there's not really gonna be much happening besides the ETF.
00:34:14.694 - 00:34:43.260, Speaker A: Let's see if that changes things going into July here, but yeah, we'll have to see what happens there. But anyway, that's enough for today. Sorry for a bit of, I guess, like a bit of. What's the word I'm looking for? Stuttering in my voice and a bit of kind of slowness in me today. It's definitely because I'm sick, I'm trying to talk, and my brain's not working as it normally is, so apologies for that if that was annoying for you guys, but I managed to make it through the whole episode without coughing, so I guess that's a positive. But anyway, enough of that. Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching.
00:34:43.260 - 00:34:50.244, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
