00:00:10.380 - 00:00:48.312, Speaker A: Thanks for having me today in Durham, actually not in Durham, but I'm working from home, Netherlands, central Netherlands. Not homebound, actually no Corona. But just travel wise, I'm working from home. Today I would like to take you to a topic which is called developing advanced blockchain solutions and particularly focusing on smart contracts, which is of course the topic of today. And I'm taking you to actually what Oracle is offering in that space. My name is Josh Hoker. I'm leading business development for blockchain for EMEA, Europe, Middle east and Africa.
00:00:48.312 - 00:01:37.244, Speaker A: And I've been working in emerging technology for a long time. I'll get to that. I'm working a lot of our blockchain customers and working as well with Ian and Thomas, well switcher over there, which are actually our UK people on the ground to help you from startup as well from emerging tech technology. I'm just showing you very quickly safe harbor because I might be talking about some stuff and might be answering some of your questions which could be about future technologies or future capabilities of our products. So just kind of a statement, don't worry too much about that. But before we go into blockchain, just let me introduce myself a little bit more. Actually, I'm an engineer by heart.
00:01:37.244 - 00:02:27.992, Speaker A: I was raised Delft University, but at the same time I had a very rich interest as well in business. So I also went to some business schools in Seattle, Fontaine Blo and Colombia business schools. And with that knowledge as well and some postdocs, I joined the telco business. Been working there for several years on operational excellence across different countries. I lived in Ireland, Czech Republic, moved to Sweden as well for a while. So I worked in that space and then I joined Accenture on the business consulting side in the high tech industry. And with that actually I got to know some people in the software industry particularly as well, Oracle.
00:02:27.992 - 00:02:59.460, Speaker A: And I joined Oracle about 15 years ago already. So that's a long, long way back already. But actually every of those 15 years I've been working on emerging tech. Actually I graduated in Delft University on AI in the early 90s. I'm still working on those topics and today it's a blockchain. So I'm a speaker for Oracle on this topic as such. Also on IoT and AI for a majority of my work at Oracle.
00:02:59.460 - 00:03:49.236, Speaker A: I also have a live house at Oracle. Actually I have four kids, two of them already gone to university, the third one about to go next year. And so still one and only one at home. It's going to be empty home anyway. But I do have my hobbies and I've been actually, I've been a very fanatic player of field hockey, which I suppose in Durham University they are also playing field hockey, college hockey, but I've actually, at my age, I've moved into referee. I'm also a licensed referee in this, one of the games, actually the international under 18 to 121 poland against our local teams. I like to be also in control in sports, but actually what I like very most is what I call making blockchain work.
00:03:49.236 - 00:05:00.140, Speaker A: And this is one of the hackathons we recently did in Dubai. And it's just for you to figure out who is my german colleague in the room, as of course, the hackathon team over here. What I would like to take you to. I'm not going to focus too much on Oracle deliver, but just give you kind of a brief overview. We can talk much more deep in technology, of course, in the QA if you would like to, but just give you a brief overview. Oracle delivers a enterprise ready blockchain platform which is permissioned by design, permissioned in the sense that there is a certain governance on who can join the blockchain and of course certain governance what you can do on the blockchain. We'll come back to that particular in respect to smart contracts, we have looked into making it what we call enterprise ready means all kind of tooling around that it can compete with existing IT technology, which you need meat, of course, when you would like to have blockchain as a replacement or enhancement of existing IT systems.
00:05:00.140 - 00:06:05.170, Speaker A: Thirdly, very much looking at how can we offer the server. And that very much boils down in that we want to make it easy, easy to deploy, easy to actually to control, easy to manage and monitor. And lastly, very much looking in how blockchain works with the rest of the world, so how it cannot connect with applications. And of course Chainlink, of course is one of those parties as well, looking also to connect with other blockchains as much which you also could see as other applications, but very much blockchain which then supports existing applications and connect to that and actually brings data back and forth. So the whole concept exactly, to make it easier to use blockchains, to build blockchains actually in an enterprise environment and make it easier to use them and to compete with existing IT systems. That's actually Oracle's strategy in the blockchain space. And with that we have implemented already over the last 18 months a lot of customers.
00:06:05.170 - 00:07:03.716, Speaker A: I say 18 months is actually 18 months ago. That's when we launched our blockchain platform. We also launched on blockchain application, the blockchain platform, more or less the development and deployment platform launched in July 2018. You can see, I think a lot of the first deployments were in the supply chain. So supply chain, counterfeit, sustainability, authenticity, where you can see a lot of them, the ones in bolt are the ones which are live, the ones which are not bold are the ones that have gone through pilot stage. And we can talk about them because they've produced certain KPIs and the customers would like to talk about secret. You can see as well there's a strong start in supply chain counterfeit sustainability, but then also move into logistics, transportation, intercompany settlements, particularly between different parts of the business.
00:07:03.716 - 00:08:05.192, Speaker A: Also for example online training, education, certification, not only for universities that will be started, but we do see also like ISO certification or health and safety certifications. The interesting, if we focus on smart contracts on this, is that smart contracts are used by some of them, not all of them, but in different ways. At the Volvo case, which is actually built and delivered by our partner and startup circular, where Ian is going to talk about later a little bit more. They use for example, smart contracts to put a little bit of calculation. So this is a case where we dealing with the cobalt tracing of the recycling of batteries. But in their proposition, of course, it's all about how much of a certain ore or cobalt goes in, or a certain half product goes in, how much gets out. And that has to be an equation in there that makes sure that we don't lose anything along the process.
00:08:05.192 - 00:08:51.616, Speaker A: So smart contract in that respect is then used as actually as kind of a formula to make sure that what goes in comes out. When we look, for example, cargo smart, that's very much about merit and shipping documents there. We use smart contract very much to replace documents and replace actually the data from documents. So the data from documents in the smart contracts are being processed and of course being shared across the blockchain network. So there you can see it's a replacement for document data. Whilst for example certified origin, which is about creating sustainable olive oil in Italy, shipping it then to the US and the mexican market for the high end. So this is a high brand olive oil.
00:08:51.616 - 00:10:13.600, Speaker A: The smart contracts are used in the process itself. So they use smart contracts to define work orders and to process work order information, then into purchase orders and purchase orders, of course, then to be put into the logistics chain. So then the smart contract itself is more like a process engine. We're also making waves in the financial services you can see a few over here, and government and healthcare, which is a bit of a tougher market, but it's getting there. And just to take two of them, where we can see smart contracts being used, for example in the an platform smart insurance, which is we just launched about a month ago in the London open world and this is where you can see the smart contracts being used really to cover actually smart insurance. So this is about oracles, outside information that is put into the process of claims and then bringing of course, outside information. Could be weather information, it could be flight delays to calculate what kind of claims, how the claims should be processed and how much people are entitled to as a part of the insurance.
00:10:13.600 - 00:11:02.636, Speaker A: So that you can really can see where the smart contract delivers a platform into smart insurance. But also, for example, in Nigeria, we're using our excise tax applications. This is about importing raw materials which are excise from text and then producing finished goods which are text. And that whole process needs to be guarded. And then the smart contract itself is actually almost like the backbone to check on every moment in the process if someone is entitled to produce something, if someone has a building permit or production, current, et cetera. So there the smart contract is used almost like a gatekeeper. And that brings me also to, I think we've been talking about smartphones all day and I haven't been following the other session, but I guess a lot of different people with different opinions of smart contracts.
00:11:02.636 - 00:12:13.380, Speaker A: This is what I use as smart contracts, which I think is kind of the key deliverable or the key reason why you would use smart contracts in blockchains is smart contracts in one way is a way to safeguard, to enforce that something that is put on the blockchain has to meet certain contractual clauses. So it's like a gatekeeper, it's restrictive, it just needs to meet and tick in the boxes. That's what we've seen with some of the examples I just mentioned that will check if something, what comes in is correct. It follows the rules the same time, a smart contract is also an executable. So what it can do is it can change the status in the ledger by processing information and maybe adding also information from outside, and with that actually creating an outcome that of course is locked on the ledger, but also used to kick off processes outside the blockchain. So in that sense, the smart contract is more than just a producer or an enforcer, it's also an execution. So I think that's important as well to understand that we can see smart contracts in that respect.
00:12:13.380 - 00:13:24.280, Speaker A: And that makes smart contracts actually a very strong, a very powerful tooling in blockchains, overall blockchain systems and all of those I just mentioned, we've been living with customers, they probably fall the same line. They have something on the top like an application, could be an existing application, could be a new application where actually the users might register and actually they get exposed to information. And on the bottom, that's where you have actually the blockchain with the world state where you have the actual values, and the blockchain where you have the history of transactions all chained together to show you actually the pedigree. And then on some of them, of course, you can have smart contracts in the middle, which then deliver additional business logic. So the applications might have some logic. Then the smart contract has specific transactional logic, which then of course can create additional transactional information on the blockchain. While the application itself can also dig into the blockchain.
00:13:24.280 - 00:14:11.400, Speaker A: The smart contracts have kind of an extra layer on it to do additional information. So that's actually how any solution, whether this is a wallet Azure application, or whether this is a logistics application to see track and trace, follows the same architecture. And this is also how Oracle built actually its platform. It's covering mainly the smart contract part and the blockchain part, not the application. That's something you can build on top of with the platform. And we've based it on Oracle Hyperledger, which is open source Hyperledger fabric. We're using that in respect, but we've added a lot of stuff to it to make it easier to integrate.
00:14:11.400 - 00:15:16.380, Speaker A: For example, using ReSt APIs, rest proxies, using SDKs, also other enterprise adapters to connect to the rest of the world. We've added a lot of infrastructure under it. So to make it a managed service, to integrate identity management, to manage your containers, to run it on, to also to make it easy to provision, to manage the events and the storage. So that's kind of the way we have bundled all together to also make the data available outside the blockchain. And that's actually what we call the managed Oracle Pass platform as a service blockchain. And as we're close to Hyperledger fabric, we can not only define blockchain networks in Oracle's cloud, but also using or connecting actually native hyperledger fabric peers on third party clouds. But also we have almost like, you can also run the same thing on your own data center, you can call it on Prem, but in a data center could be azure, could be Amazon using Oracle's development blockchain platform in a different environment.
00:15:16.380 - 00:16:41.608, Speaker A: And as we stick to the open source hyperchar fabric, it's very easy to connect all of them and making use of actually the same configurations of your dot or your consensus, etc. So that is actually what Oracle has brought to market to make this all possible. And of course, in there we have smart contracts, which then links to the rest APIs to the integrations level, but also to the distributed ledger of open source Hyperledger. Open source for those who are maybe not familiar with hyperledger fabric, just very quickly, we've chosen Hyperledger fabric for different reasons, but Hyperledger fabric self, where I think it excels in, is in three parts, actually, the way you can access it using APIs, very open to accessing information, the fact that actually it has separated different function, identity ledger transactions altogether, and smart on different containers. So, which means that if you have a lot of members on your blockchain, you just have to scale up your identity containers. If you expect a lot of transactions or a lot of ledger updates, you actually can separately scale your consensus service to run your DLT. Or if you, for example, have a lot of logic, a lot of smart contracts on your blockchain, then you scale separately your chain code, which is actually a high pleasure word for smart contracts.
00:16:41.608 - 00:17:19.572, Speaker A: So you can scale all three parts independent of each other through containers. But across that, there's just one security in crypto services, which is across all. So it's a neat architecture, and we use that architecture, actually, we've built our platform on top of this. To now take a little bit forward on the smart contracts. I would like to explain one concept, which actually is an hyperledger fabric, and that's called the channels. And channels is a way to more or less separate information across the hyperledger fabric network for different peers. So you could say subledgers.
00:17:19.572 - 00:18:25.436, Speaker A: And very simply, what it shows here is that, for example, you can define channel A and B, and then you can define which peers, which nodes of which organization are in the same channel. Why would you do this? Is actually, you say, well, I bundle those peers, those participants which take part of the same process, which share the same data across that part of it, or specific data, and with that specific processes, which you bundle, actually you can assign certain smart contracts which execute those processes. So the channels itself, which is almost like the same as channels on the walkie talkie, that you can say, well, I can only hear what's been set on a channel if I'm on the right channel. If I'm on a different channel, I just hear scrambled noise. If you are entitled to be in a specific channel, then certain smart contracts which only apply to you and your peers in that channel are being deployed and actually execute a transaction for that specific channel. And that's all we've done. We've improved that from Oracle point of view.
00:18:25.436 - 00:19:23.008, Speaker A: So we made it easier to create your smart contracts chain code to install them through zip codes very easily to instantiate them, so you can compile them. You can sign up to a certain channel, but also once they're on there, to make it easy to interact with the smart context, the chain code through rest proxies, so outside applications then can call upon certain smart contexts to be executed on certain transactions. And that's what we call to the rest proxy, the SDK. As such, that's what we've done to improve and make it very easy. And the way it just goes is exactly, I'm just showing quickly here, deploy a chain code. First time it's versioned. Also the chain code itself, the smart contract is actually versioned because you can only update it coming with some initial parameters to a certain channel.
00:19:23.008 - 00:20:06.520, Speaker A: And the rest proxy is kind of the entry point. So you can see it on our blockchain, you can see balance transferred. The smart contract, it's versioned as such. And we can also see when it was invoked with certain parameters, A, B and one for the version as kind of a starting point. So somewhere when a channel is created and there might be transaction at a certain time, you can invoke a smart contract. And from the moment that you invoke a smart contract, then all transactions have to live by the rules of that smart contract. And once a smart contract is in there from outside, you can query for example using Postman.
00:20:06.520 - 00:20:54.748, Speaker A: And in this case what it actually very simply says, okay, at a certain moment in time, I just want to query what is the value of argument a for that specific channel with that specific chain code, version V one, and it comes back with the result of payload 55. Great. So you can just, through a rest call you can query the blockchain. What you also can do, of course, blockchain is through that same mechanism to just see how you get there. This is like get history. And we know when we initiated with 100, you can see it here, it will come back, of course with the whole query of the chain, of the change of actually the value from 100 to 55, which is actually now. So it gives you the rest proxy together with the chain code, gives you a good information.
00:20:54.748 - 00:21:50.450, Speaker A: What exactly happened to the lifecycle of those transactions? And lastly, what we've done is also making it easier to export information because you don't want to query everything on the blockchain. And again, the same model of channels and smart contracts, we created what we call a rich database history where you can export it and then make it available for external analytics because you don't want to do all your analytics if it's not time critical. You can do it after the fact. You can off chain your information and make it available for any analytics tooling as shown here. So again, the smart contracts then actually execute the process. But what you don't want to do is also use the smart contracts for deep analytics. That's something you might want to do outside the blockchain as such, but you're using again the rest proxy for that.
00:21:50.450 - 00:23:07.780, Speaker A: And lastly, what we've added as one of the tools is actually identities to make it easy to use identities. And why it is important because hyperpletch itself comes with membership. Who can do what on the blockchain, who can access the blockchain? But actually in today's world, and I'm coming back to the fourth point where it actually is integrated, rest of the world, you would like to integrate it with existing identity cloud services or identity services, LDAPs as such, because often those who are members of a blockchain have a certain role already in an organization. That's why we've integrated across identity cloud service, Oracle to use this to be able to propagate other identities and actually to create an enrollment certificate, we also use it and now coming back to the smart contracts to even make more fine grained access on the blockchain itself. So even determining what kind of roles, what kind of groups can execute smart contracts to chain code as such. So that's what we call fine grained control access. So you can give certain rights on the blockchain to participants which have a role in your organization.
00:23:07.780 - 00:24:08.970, Speaker A: This is kind of what we call the making it enterprise ready, making blockchain much more than just a transactional engine for storing information. So coming to more or less kind of what do we call probably a sample architecture, we do see a lot and all the things bringing it together is when you have membership organizations, they join on the blockchain, they probably will be using some kind of management system, could be oracles. And the identity management system of course is then connected to the membership service. So you can use identity information, lp information from the memory organization to create your membership. And your identities on the blockchain, you're not ready yet. What you often have to do is actually to create something like a front end, the application itself, either existing front end, existing application or you build something new. Whether you use Kubernetes for that or any tooling mobile cloud to create something.
00:24:08.970 - 00:24:59.470, Speaker A: That's what we do see in all of our project actually as the next first step to create a front end so people can see what's happening on the blockchain. And then of course adding this analytic information, enriching the information with analytics after the fact on the blockchain. Taking a little bit step further is those membership organizations often run existing business applications. Either point of the identity management comes back using the rest to integrate. And blockchain can be linked to certain business processes in existing applications or the other way around. Take procurement. You do something in your business application, you want to share it with your network so you can create an event from your procurement into the blockchain to record it over there.
00:24:59.470 - 00:26:42.248, Speaker A: And this of course is very much a one to one, but it's really getting a one too many relationships. Then you may even want to use some orchestration tooling, API management integration adapters or process automation, BPM to run it even in a much higher or much more higher compute environment and actually in a more advanced way. And with that, of course, what I've seen that we get more and more question, of course, and if you look at smart contracts versus business application and process automation, where do you put things? And we've been looking into that and I just would like to share with you some thoughts on that. If you think about Fox Business process automation, which happens actually in BPM tooling, and some of the applications versus the blockchain, where do they meet each other and where do you need to think of when you are designing engineering those processes across those different systems? Well, you need to look at three things. Where does the business logic reside in the application, in the process tooling or in the smart contract? What about the collaboration models and what about the governance? And just to give you a few tips, why you could what I call delineate or separate what you should do. Where is the business logic? If you're using BPM tooling or actually tooling in the application itself, that must be very flexible because that's where you would like to use flexible rules to adjust to certain policies which could change actually overnight while on the blockchain. Think about again, the starting blockchain.
00:26:42.248 - 00:27:17.780, Speaker A: The smart contract is almost like a gateway, so it's a much more rigged system. So smart contracts should be used actually more to put the input under strict conditions. So you don't want the smart contracts to be updated or to be versioned every second day. You want the smart contracts to last for much longer. That's a way to separate on the digit logic where you should put stuff in the blockchain or in a BPM or application tooling. If you talk about how to build up collaboration, BPM tooling is far much about human to process interaction coupling, business application. Again, a bit of the flexible rules.
00:27:17.780 - 00:28:03.200, Speaker A: While the blockchain is really about the peer to peer interaction, one too many interactions. So also there you have to have network. What does the blockchain deliver me in terms of connectivity and smart contracts? Well, that's very much about sharing information and getting this one to one or channel information. While on the process side, the BPM side you're very much about how do I have humans interact with a process? So it's a different thing. While on blockchain. It's about actually getting data across. And the last thing about governance, very much be very clear on separating roles and responsibility within the organization, the participating organization versus the rules of engagements on the blockchain or who can join the blockchain.
00:28:03.200 - 00:28:36.864, Speaker A: So who can join a permission blockchain? What can you do on the blockchain? Those could be totally different from the roles and responsibility within your own organization. So that's a kind of an idea we're developing on to make sure that you do the right things on the right levels with that kind of would say best practices. What we've seen definitely start small with some blockchain because it's still sometimes an experimental phase. You don't want to put everything on the blockchain straight away. You want to start with it and build experience. Your customers need to build experience. So keep it simple.
00:28:36.864 - 00:29:15.400, Speaker A: Keep it simple, start simple because it's very still very hard for people to conceptualize what a blockchain is and how things are being shared in a distributed way and of course determine who you trust and how much you trust them. Is a blockchain the right answer for that, or with that, do you have to put everything on the ledger? No, not everything belongs to the ledger just mentioned. Of course, workflow. It may reside in a blockchain application, it may not reside in a smart contract. Be clear, not where you put. Don't make the smart contracts too complicated. That will complicate your life of building a good network of blockchain participants.
00:29:15.400 - 00:29:57.936, Speaker A: And lastly, of course, blockchain is not an island. It needs to interact the rest of the world. So think about how you can integrate using for example, rest to connect, using chain links to connect to other blockchains. But please think always about it's about the data that needs to be shared. And that's what a lot of our ISVs and solution providers done. They've built this application with that in mind, using our blockchain technology under it and really separated what is kind of the business function, supply chain, traceability in fashion. Kyc, know your customer bank, point of sales, onboarding, what is the part which sits in their application, the logic and the intelligence, their own NPR.
00:29:57.936 - 00:30:57.272, Speaker A: And how can they leverage a blockchain platform to use those smart contracts? Integration, scalability by design. So I think that's important as well, that they've understood how they can actually then use and leverage a platform for bringing actually their own IP to market. And we also deal with some what we call technology solutions, which chainlink is one of them and Hasera for demo is one of them as well, where we see something that we don't offer, but then technology partners offer to actually extend our platform to the rest of the world as such. So I hope I gave you a good view on what Oracle is offering also in respect to smart contracts, how we think, how we deal with smart contracts. And I would ask, would you like to know more? I hope the answer is yes. We'll share those QR codes so you can look up blockchain from Oracle. Also a link to a developer ebook on Oracle blockchain.
00:30:57.272 - 00:31:37.940, Speaker A: If you're happy with that, you would like to do more. Very happy. Be my guest. For those who have cloud credits on Oracle platform services, go to blockchain platform. You get all of it, the Hyperledger fabric environment, all the Oracle add ons and the whole infrastructure just as one. And I think Ian Keem will be happy to show you how. For those who have the unifields of credits as such, and if you're still hungry, definitely some recommended reading to get yourself really to the bottom of Oracle's blockchain platform and get yourself actually to become a blockchain professional in Oracle.
