00:00:00.200 - 00:00:49.480, Speaker A: Good morning, everyone. Thank you for showing up on a Saturday morning to the Nebula summit. And welcome to the community room. I'm Rob, and I'm going to talk to you today about the challenges of sovereign interoperability in humans. So is there a timer or anything? So maybe I can just put my phone out. Right. So today I want to tell you a little story that starts with a post on the Cosmos hub forum.
00:00:49.480 - 00:01:31.554, Speaker A: And then I'm going to introduce you to three psychological models. I hope you indulge my nerding out on this. Then I want to talk to you about the time my cat spoke to me, and I want to finish by presenting to you an idea of a meme coin. So, hopefully this is somewhat entertaining for you. I'll start the story with cosmoverse. Last September, I went there. So I work in the area of organizational psychology.
00:01:31.554 - 00:02:58.580, Speaker A: And I went there because I've had a real fascination with the cosmos, ecosystems, organizational culture for a while, and I wanted to understand a little bit more about what was going on. So I went down to Istanbul, I talked to a bunch of people. I came back, I wrote up my thoughts and initial findings, and I posted it to the Cosmos hub forum, and it wound up igniting a pretty big discussion where I felt like I got to experience the cosmos drama firsthand. And it was, I think, on the professional side of me was thrilled by it, because you really don't get this in the corporate world very often, just outright warfare. But on a personal side, I really could also feel how it was affecting the people who work in this environment. It left me really confused. And I spent a few months just sort of trying to figure out why this group of people who almost everyone I talked to one on one, was just a really sincere, smart, good person in this context, sort of became this cosmos drama.
00:02:58.580 - 00:04:37.642, Speaker A: And I think that what finally let me sort of break out of that confusion was that I started applying a filter that I do to a lot of my clients when I work with them, which is, how does this behavior help you? So, usually when we do a behavior that's hurting us, it's because at some point, it helped us as well. And instead of sort of attacking and rejecting that behavior, sometimes a better approach is to accept it and to sort of redivert that energy to a way that helps you. So that's what I wanted to try to do with looking at this and sort of accepting that maybe cosmos drama is a feature and not a bug, and that there's something in the conflict that's good. But the question is maybe that the conflict, the way that the conflict is done is destructive, and that somehow, maybe the cosmos drama and the cosmos ethos of sovereign interoperability were linked. And I wanted to sort of explore that. So this is the first sort of thought I had, was, what if humans weren't designed to be sovereign and interoperable at scale? You know, like sort of basic anthropology. We were sort of designed to be in these tribes of about 250 people.
00:04:37.642 - 00:05:27.880, Speaker A: And then through sort of myths and domination, we created empires and systems. And the world that we're in now, but the world we're in now, as you can see, is like we've got warfare, we have widespread misery. Like there's something that maybe in the way that we're designed, that it's not as simple as an engineering problem, you might say. I wanted to start with a sovereignty part of sovereign interoperability. What is sovereignty? And so this is going to be your first model. I want to throw a little disclaimer out here, which is there's a british statistician named George Box who once said, all models are wrong. Some are useful.
00:05:27.880 - 00:05:51.608, Speaker A: I want you to keep this in mind. These are just perspectives. They're not the total truth, but I find that they're sometimes very useful. The first one is called self determination theory. I'm going to be very short on this one. It's my favorite psychological theory, because what it says is that human beings have three basic psychological needs. They're autonomy, competence, and relatedness.
00:05:51.608 - 00:06:43.636, Speaker A: Autonomy, basically, meaning you can write your own story. Competence, meaning you have the ability to create that story in real life, and relatedness, meaning, you know, how that story fits in with, in the sort of broader picture. And I just want to pause on this because I want to say that you can see how the web3 sort of movement in general has succeeded because it satisfies these three basic psychological needs. To a degree. I think that previous systems haven't so much, and that here, autonomy, basically meaning I can do what I want to do without any sort of outside interference. But now here's a second model. This is called the stereotype content model.
00:06:43.636 - 00:07:36.750, Speaker A: I think it came from 2002, Fisk, Cuddy, et al. And what it says is that when we are animals and that when we meet a new person, the first thing we do before we even can think about it really is we evaluate them. We plot them on this matrix of warmth and competence. Warmth, meaning are you here to help me or hurt me? Competence, meaning do you have the means to help me or hurt me? And this winds up being the universal dimensions of social and interpersonal perception. We plot everyone on it. We plot ourselves on it, too. So if you think about a medieval society, you know, you have the king, he's the warmest and the most competent of all.
00:07:36.750 - 00:08:37.556, Speaker A: You have the court. They're sort of less warm and less competent, but still, you know, on that side. And then you have the peasants who are kind of like these despicable, terrible people. And the reason this sort of works is that people internalize this. So the peasant thinks, oh, yes, I am just a weakness, terrible person, my king, he is glorious and all powerful, and, you know, and everybody kind of knows their role. And then we have, what I would argue we're moving towards today, which is a society where we all think of ourselves as equally warm and competent as anybody else. You know, you can think about, you know, Taylor Swift, Jeff Bezos, I don't know, Donald Trump.
00:08:37.556 - 00:08:57.480, Speaker A: Like, they don't think of each other as, oh, you're some higher person or lower. They're all sort of free people. Maybe Trump's a bad example. I'm sorry. I don't. Anyway, everyone considers themselves as warm and competent as anyone else. And this is the world that we're moving towards.
00:08:57.480 - 00:09:52.100, Speaker A: If you think about the medieval society, there's one hill and the king's on top of the hill. The emergent society, everyone's on their own hill. And when you're on your own hill, psychosocially, you're free. You are not within some system that makes you feel like you are less than someone else. I want to just put out there that maybe this is what sovereignty is. Sovereignty is not the feeling that you are in some hierarchy where you are less than someone else. And I also want to argue that the cosmos culture, the cosmos hub ecosystem, resembles this more than most other web3 ecosystems.
00:09:52.100 - 00:10:41.304, Speaker A: And from my perspective, that's a positive thing. So imagine the perspective of the king. You're on top of your hill, and you scan across, and you basically are looking for threats that you can protect from and eliminate. So you got this little ninja guy there in the corner. But when you are in this emergent society, you look out and what you see is a bunch of other, also free people. And here's the rub, which is studies have found that when you consider yourself, well, I shouldn't say you people, because this is all these averages. So this might not relate at all to you.
00:10:41.304 - 00:11:18.650, Speaker A: But generally, people, when they consider themselves warm and competent, tend to reduce their perception of warmth of other competent people. Basically, you look out, and you see people who are challenged. They could potentially challenge your position as king of your own hill. And you say, hmm, maybe they're out to get me. And so the sort of general level of paranoia of the culture, of the civilization, however you want to say it, is increased. Paranoia is increased warmth. Perception of warmth is decreased.
00:11:18.650 - 00:12:48.696, Speaker A: So maybe the world looks scary when you're free. Maybe this is one of the things we're learning as we move into this more emergent sovereign world. So my proposal is to say this is the freedom paradox, that the more we become free, the less able we are to re interact with each other, to listen to each other. And that if we consider that we are in competition with other communities, which tend to be more hierarchical, actually, the hierarchical ones will share more information because, well, they trust each other. They don't perceive each other. They know their role in their own society, where we free people tend to regard each other as potential threats, and we don't exchange as much information. So the challenge, the new challenge is, in a sovereign world, how do we increase interoperability? How do we increase the flow of information in non hierarchical communities? So the barriers to human interoperability, you have things like skepticism, paranoia, culture, language, demographics, ideology.
00:12:48.696 - 00:13:35.954, Speaker A: But I want to introduce one really quickly, which is stages. So I think one of the most fascinating things to come out of psychology these last 2030 years has been the understanding that when we. We start out as babies, we grow to be children, we become adolescents, we become adults, but we actually keep evolving. And that these stages of. And the way we evolve is by becoming more complex. These stages match the same sort of increase in complexity that we see in nature, that we see in human civilization. And what I've tried to do right here on the right is kind of, say, to boil down each stage.
00:13:35.954 - 00:14:38.510, Speaker A: So, like, a baby has a body, and then a young child sort of develops a sense of wonder, and an older child develops a sense of power. And we have, at any point, we're existing on all of these stages. If we. Sometimes a lot of our disagreement comes from the fact that one of us is speaking at one stage, another of us is listening at another. And so you'll say something like, long live the king, and someone at a higher stage will say, the king is illegitimate, and there's not an ability to connect. And so, Cosmos, I would argue, is actually because, well, this top system right here, meta systemic. So this is creating systems out of systems.
00:14:38.510 - 00:15:34.630, Speaker A: This is like, the latest stage in sort of human cognitive complexity. But in order to design at that stage, you have to go to even higher stages. These are stages that people haven't really operated on, like, very, very infrequently, the most genius mathematicians of the past. But here in the cosmos hub, we're operating on these stages regularly. And this work is hard, anecdotally. So the other areas that are working at this level would be, like, AI, people doing, like, climate stuff, like big sustainability work, people trying to do social cohesion. And anecdotally, people who do this kind of work suffer from things like depression, from other mental health issues at a higher rate than other people.
00:15:34.630 - 00:16:11.600, Speaker A: It's. Working at that level of abstraction is a lot is very far removed from where we naturally work. But this is the work of the future. Interoperability is the key to expanding, to continuing to expand human sovereignty. And we can increase human interoperability by cultivating listening skills. So, okay, so I'll go back. This is where I said, all right.
00:16:11.600 - 00:16:53.290, Speaker A: I think what we just need to do is have a way that we could all diffuse the. Our sort of general distrust from each other by doing something very simple. And what I proposed was an oath. We say, I promise that if I have a conflict with anyone else who's also taken this oath, I will seek to find a win win resolution with the help of the community, if necessary. And I thought about, you know, I've had conversations with people, how do you enforce this? And what I kind of came to is, it's not enforceable. It's an oath with no teeth, but it opens up a little bit of space to say, maybe this person's sincere. Maybe I need to give this person the benefit of the doubt.
00:16:53.290 - 00:17:34.748, Speaker A: The problem is, though, that when we do that evaluation on warmth and competence, we do that from our lizard brains, as they say. And this oath is a very front, front brain, highly complex thinking kind of thing. And I got stuck. And I looked over at my cat, and my cat said to me, it's okay. I'm not here to hurt you. I come in peace. And it really freaked me out because I've been doing this work in the cosmos ecosystem, and I thought, now I'm going crazy.
00:17:34.748 - 00:17:58.956, Speaker A: It's happening. Like I've finally gone too far. But in fact, there is a way of translating what my cat said to me, because my cat did something where he slowly blinked his eyes. And this has been shown to be a form of cat communication where cats say, I come in peace. I'm not a predator. I'm not here to fight. I'm just chilling out.
00:17:58.956 - 00:19:15.760, Speaker A: And this is my cat, Lionel. This is his moment to shine. The slow blink is a communication to other cats and to people, but it also within, well, the cat, or if you do it yourself, it creates a visible sense of calm. Actually, I found this woman who teaches slow blinking as a methodology for stress reduction. So what I want to do, and I'll finish up here pretty quickly, is I want to try to improve the vibes of the cosmos ecosystem. And what I'd like to do is start by creating a community of people who take this oath to slow blinken, metaphorically or literally, and create the sense that, hey, maybe we don't like each other, but we're not as bad as we maybe think we are. And then to tokenize this and make this a meme coin on a very, very low frequency.
00:19:15.760 - 00:20:45.660, Speaker A: So, not trying to chase the latest waves, but looking over the course of 19 years, which is a nice long life of a cat, and finding a way that we can spread this meme not just within the cosmos hub, but out towards everyone in the world who's emerging towards this reality that we are living through now. So the way it works is you take the oath, you get an NFT sub that's here, it's okay. And then once a year, you get an airdrop of the slow blank coin. Basically, 19 twentieths get distributed only to people who've taken the oath. And one 20th is reserved for the slow blank Dao. The slow blank Dao's goals are to make the cosmos hub a world class community for productive conflict, to translate the culture and the good vibes that we do have here to other high complexity sectors, and to also learn from other high complexity sectors how they're dealing with working at levels of super high abstraction and to nurture the spread of this meme for the benefit of all of humanity and beyond. And you can imagine the view from the top when everyone is slow blinking is a lot more pleasant than when they're not.
00:20:45.660 - 00:21:07.280, Speaker A: And so, thank you very much. Slowblink Energy is our website, and if you want to be a part of it, we're creating a waitlist. If you just want to help out in any way, be in touch, because I am really excited to try to see what I can do to contribute to the culture at the Cosmos Hub.
