00:00:00.170 - 00:00:29.986, Speaker A: Right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve. Before we jump in, quick disclaimer. The views expressed by my co host today are their personal views, and they do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode. All right, partner, episode two of the appchain thesis.
00:00:29.986 - 00:00:30.982, Speaker A: I'm excited for this one.
00:00:31.036 - 00:00:32.262, Speaker B: Yeah, this should be a great one.
00:00:32.316 - 00:01:44.650, Speaker A: We're talking to Sam Hart and Zachy Manian today, and we're going to be talking about kind of this idea of fat apps. And for listeners, an important analogy or framework that we draw on in this episode is this idea of Aggregation Theory, which was originally pioneered by Ben Thompson. And just to give you an overview, aggregation theory is kind of a framework for how to understand a very successful kind of aggregator business model that's appeared in web two. So you can kind of think of it as those famous two sided marketplaces that everyone sort of knows and loves and uses the Ubers, the Airbnbs, but also even the Googles and the Facebooks, where an enormous amount of value has been captured by aggregating sort of consumer demand around a specific supply of something that looks commoditized. So I think using that analogy is not super perfect for web3, but it was interesting to hear Zachie's and Sam's thoughts on where it applied versus where it didn't. And ultimately, I think it was a good way to reform sort of supply driven investment arguments that get made in crypto a lot over like, demand driven investment sort of rationales. And that's what we're very focused on in this episode.
00:01:44.730 - 00:02:26.234, Speaker B: I think we'll get into this in the app, but a lot of these protocols are marketplaces, both L1s that are a marketplace for block space with applications, as well as the application layer, which is often a marketplace for, say, liquidity with traders. And just kind of teasing out where this is going based off of what we see in web two in the aggregator side. And maybe to think about the benefits of getting closer to the user to have more control over the demand side is a big tailwind behind this whole application specific thesis. So, yeah, I'm excited to dig into it.
00:02:26.272 - 00:02:38.414, Speaker A: All right, without any further, just let's hop right into the episode. All right, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve today. I'm joined by my co host Miles O'Neill, and we've got Zachy Manion and Sam Hart on the episode. So fellas, welcome to the show.
00:02:38.452 - 00:02:39.680, Speaker C: It's great to be here.
00:02:40.130 - 00:02:41.438, Speaker D: Thanks for having us.
00:02:41.604 - 00:03:37.134, Speaker A: Yeah, guys, thanks very much. So we owe a special debt of gratitude to both Zackie and Sam, who gave their thoughts on this season. So guys, thanks so much for not only appearing today, but also helping to steer us hopefully in the right direction for the trajectory of the know. Today we really want to get into this idea of really explore kind of fat apps versus fat protocols and really try to examine this idea that value may accrue to the app chain layer, which is closer to consumers that are actually interacting with blockchain. So Sonny was getting into this at the tail end at the first episode that that went live last week. But guys, if I had to turn it over to either of the two of you just from sort of a high level to begin with and then we can drill down if I ask you to make sort of the case, that value will accrue to sort of the app chain layer as opposed to the fat protocol layer. Do you want to want to take up the mantle for that argument?
00:03:37.182 - 00:05:08.826, Speaker C: So I view appchains as a way of enabling sort of product market fit across blockchain technology as a whole. And so what? The version of that world that sort of exists in my imagination and is, I think, slowly starting to be validated by the market, is that as you get increased conviction in entrepreneurs about what the market wants, what is needed, what they want to build, you want to be able to sort of vertically integrate that whole experience. Right. And usually if you're building something on a blockchain, you're building some sort of two sided marketplace where there's a user base and there's sort of a supply chain or providers on that space, whether it's like you're bringing together NFT creators or users or DeFi investors and strategists on. Som you have this two sided marketplace. You want to be able to optimize the value flow between all of the parties. And one of the things that is complex about l ones is actually, in many ways, there are a bunch of established value flows in the l one that you have to contend with, whether it's mev, searchers or block.
00:05:08.826 - 00:06:21.162, Speaker C: Producers or miners or all of these things who are not really aligned with your particular application and who you can't necessarily harness as part of the creation of this two sided marketplace. And so what I think is going to be the design patterns that will succeed success is applications that do this. Now, one other thing I will say though is I think if like, for instance, if you look at the evolution of the ethereum ecosystem, you can start your ecosystem as a fat protocol oriented ecosystem and then things can be built on top of that fat protocol that start to align it better with the application specific thesis. And I would say both the emergence of eigen layer and the op stack have been aligning the ethereum ecosystem a lot better with the application specific blockchain thesis in a way that was like organic but somewhat unexpected.
00:06:21.326 - 00:06:58.290, Speaker A: I think that to maybe sum up what you guys said there are a couple different angles there, which is one, there's sort of the entrepreneur angle, right, which is that eventually entrepreneurs are going to want more control, basically over the full stack that they're building on. So app chains have a natural sort of advantage there. Zach, your description of appchain sort of a two sided marketplace is one that I think is very important. Can you elaborate exactly on what that means? Because I think there are some a bunch of questions. There are analogies that we could draw there to how that played out in web two. And I want to get your thoughts on whether or not you see the same dynamics being prevalent for what we're talking about here.
00:06:58.360 - 00:08:33.650, Speaker C: Yeah, I mean, most applications inside of blockchains, whether or not they present themselves this way, have this sort of two sided marketplace characteristic, right? And the classic web two two sided marketplaces are Uber or Airbnb. Uber is matching a pool of drivers with a pool of writers, airbnb, a pool of hosts. And so you saw a sort of cycle. There was definitely a hype cycle of this in general. But in general you have the classic even your DeFi apps are just the whole peer to pool sort of thing. This is like the DeFi summer innovation, which was that you could have these smart contracts that can pool resources and then act as efficient coordination mechanisms between essentially makers and takers in a trading application. You could have the taker side essentially filled by this LP pool and then makers who want to buy and sell being able to draw from that liquidity or people being able to aggregate their funds in a lending protocol and then people on demand being able to pull and borrow from that, sometimes in a flash loan for one block.
00:08:33.650 - 00:09:03.722, Speaker C: These are all essentially the great successes of cryptocurrency have been the creation of these extreme. So the problem of Uber, right, the problem of Airbnb is it's not a neutral marketplace, right. They are both rent seeking on top of that. And the dream of cryptocurrencies is basically to create these extremely neutral platforms by which you are able to match the two sides of the market.
00:09:03.856 - 00:09:31.170, Speaker D: Adding on to that a little bit the analogy. One of the reasons that Uber works is because it makes the supply of drivers more uniform for the ride buyer. And it's kind of exactly what's happening to LPs. It kind of gives them a uniform strategy. So it's a much kind of easier interface for a trader to interact with.
00:09:31.240 - 00:10:19.298, Speaker A: So this is kind of a good place to introduce because in those dynamics for Web two. So we're talking about the classic platforms of web two, right, like the Ubers or the Airbnbs. Even before that you had kind of like the Facebooks and the Googles as some of the best sort of aggregator businesses of all time. This is where I think it would be cool to kind of layer this idea of aggregation theory, which is this is Ben Thompson of strategy's thing. He wrote a blog post in 2015 that initially gained a lot of traction and has sort of since blossomed into this whole way of describing it's kind of a framework for describing these very successful businesses in the Internet era. And most of them are these sort of marketplace businesses. And we can get into the exact definition of how he defines an aggregator, but essentially it's these businesses that we're talking about.
00:10:19.298 - 00:11:02.458, Speaker A: And really the key distinction I think that he makes is that in the Internet, if you're looking at sort of a supply chain that has kind of production and supply over here and then demand over here, the best businesses in the web two Internet era actually optimize for owning demand, right? That's what these aggregators sort of did. So it was interesting, Zackie, to hear you kind of describe some of the most successful protocols in crypto as actually having a similar dynamic. How appropriate do you think that Lens is to apply to crypto? Where does optimizing for taking demand kind of work in a crypto paradigm versus where does the analogy sort of start to break down from web two in a crypto world?
00:11:02.564 - 00:12:34.590, Speaker C: From my point of view, I think this has been the question, right? Is the aggregation of demand at an l one layer or not? And I think that okay, so you do see aggregation of demand at l one layers. I mean, I think there's just no doubt that there is an aggregation of demand that networks of telegram channels and communities form around l one and l one like objects. Arbitrum right now is where the DFI cool kids are all hanging out, and there is an aggregation of demand that is occurring around Arbitrum. And there was an aggregation of demand that happened around Ethereum, and there has been an aggregation of demand around BNB chain. So you do perceive that that aggregation of demand does occur. The question or the skepticism around the Fat protocol thesis, from my point of view has been that that aggregation of demand, I believe, is largely temporary and transitory and not particularly sticky. And you've seen the aggregation of demand kind of flit from l one to l one over the last three cycles, and generally nothing sticks.
00:12:34.590 - 00:13:36.126, Speaker C: What has been sticky is people use OpenSea and uniswap, and they use it across multiple chains. And the core of the belief of this is that the actual aggregation of demand from the end user point of view is not going to be like, oh, because let's be honest with blockchains are critical infrastructure and ubiquitous. The user base is not going to be like, oh, we hang out in this discord or this telegram group. And that's not our user base, right? That's not our long term user base. Our long term user base is barely aware that there's a blockchain involved and are just like, this is a marketplace where I can buy the things I want to buy or use the stuff that I want. Like I need compute, I need an AI model. I need something to be rendered like whatever, they're just using computing for the services that it provides.
00:13:36.126 - 00:14:04.106, Speaker C: And blockchains are part of the infrastructure. So in that I need to send money to my friend, these are the different things I need to hedge my forex risk. All of the ordinary things that people are going to be doing, none of those people are going to be hanging out in Telegram channels and discords to aggregate demand. They're going to be like, this is the app. This is the app that does the great job, does this really well. I use it. I believe in that.
00:14:04.106 - 00:14:23.470, Speaker C: That's where my relationship is, I bet this app layer. And so that's the thesis. We continue to be sort of a little bit modeling the future of cryptocurrency based on the future of our space, based on the users of today who are not really representative of what the future user looks like.
00:14:23.540 - 00:15:26.340, Speaker B: I think that's fair. And how much of that do you think is I guess the difference between I think maybe another analogy is like an L1 is sort of like Apple's App Store or Windows, right? In that it's a marketplace for supply and demand of developers, supply of block. You know, it gives them the ability to rent, seek throughout that entire, I guess, value chain and squeeze on both sides versus other platforms are really owning that user relationship. Like Uber, Google, they are the touch point of the user. And so I think would you agree that you're seeing something where as apps actually start to gain more leverage and traction on these general purpose L1s? That's part of the friction here. Or the tension, right, to maybe. Move, at least to their own app chain or get closer to the user and be able to extract more of that value versus the l one.
00:15:26.340 - 00:15:35.842, Speaker B: Is that a fair analogy? You'd say that where this is all going is really also the app's motivation to get closer to the user and control more of that value stack.
00:15:35.906 - 00:16:43.354, Speaker D: I think it depends on where you're starting. So if you're starting out as uniswap, you have a great relationship to the user and you're trying to expand the addressable market into other chains. If you are starting out as Osmosis and you have an L1, they have expanded into kind of adjacent categories because they want to I mean, one, there's a smaller user base that they have access to at the moment. So they kind of want to get access to users that way. So that question of what move you make and how that kind of impacts your architectural decision about the application and whether you're going to be doing kind of further vertical integration. It really is highly dependent on where your beachhead is.
00:16:43.392 - 00:18:22.378, Speaker A: I think that beachhead sort of point is, I think a good one, sam and maybe, I mean, there's a lot of work that gets done in traditional businesses of sort of mapping like a customer journey, right? And again, to borrow sort of this sort of helpful analogy, at least for me to understand this within the context of kind of aggregation theory and where value gets captured, ben has basically used this analogy to describe how people consume information, right? So in olden kind of times when you were trying to read the news, you'd go right to the newspaper and then there's sort of like a value chain of people that actually produce content and then there's sort of publishers. But now with the advent of these aggregators in the form of social media, people actually first go to Twitter or Facebook or wherever you get your news. And that's why there's a tendency to sort of bypass the middle step, which is publishers. And that's why traditional publishers are sort of struggling. So when we think about that sort of customer journey for crypto, I'd be curious to see are there any opportunities and what is an aggregator maybe look like in a future end state for crypto? Maybe it's like a wallet is kind of the most obvious thing that comes to mind. Sunny made the observation in the last episode that people aren't users of Ethereum, they're users of MetaMask. So I'd be curious, do you guys view wallets as being potentials for aggregators or are there other apps? Or what does that sort of eventual journey for people into crypto look like? And who has the value capture?
00:18:22.554 - 00:19:14.730, Speaker D: Take a kind of sober look at this. 99% of applications right now are like day trading investment applications. It's all like financial rails. So of that single category wallets and potentially kind of like an integrated DAP experience. Yeah, absolutely. That makes sense to me. I think if we're really successful here, we're going to be entering into different markets and we might kind of white label some of this infrastructure for other use cases or kind of deploy separate instances that really help us do non financial use cases.
00:19:14.730 - 00:19:26.290, Speaker D: Finance is just the back end. So what owning the customer means in that context, I think, is to be written.
00:19:26.710 - 00:20:02.926, Speaker A: Zachie, I don't know if you have thoughts there about just like potential maybe even looking at it today. I mean, even if we just examine the financial use case or what crypto looks like today, you could even view decentralized exchanges as a potential aggregator. If you think about that customer journey, people will first engage with crypto via trading on a Dex, although I guess the wallet even comes before that. But I guess jackie, any thoughts to build on what Sam said in terms of potential aggregators today, or even just apps that own sort of the customer relationship or the consumer relationship.
00:20:03.028 - 00:21:45.410, Speaker C: I mean, I think one of the things that has sort of been most interesting to see, right, is you see both NFT marketplaces and sort of token marketplaces having been remarkably sticky. The numbers that you see are like I think there was a blockworks piece that came out recently that was like 3 million of the, which is a total, very large percentage of the total installed base of Metabas are essentially just OpenSea users, right? And then after you go from just OpenSea users, I have no idea if this number is true and what the actual number is, but I remember something like maybe a year ago, someone saying that 40% of the traffic to the Uniswap protocol is sourced from the Uniswap front end. Right. In spite of the fact that there are alternate protocols, in spite of the fact that you almost always get a better price from something like one inch, you still have this sticky connection to users. And I think we see this, honestly in Cosmos as well. Like with Osmosis, the Cosmos community is there, and there are numerous other DEXes in the Cosmos ecosystem today. But the sticky aggregation place for user demand in the Cosmos ecosystem continues to be Osmo.
00:21:45.510 - 00:22:09.078, Speaker B: That really come from an early focus on supply of liquidity. I guess that is really when we think about both sides of the marketplace, what's more important in the long run? I think it's very interesting to look at Osmosis and how they were able to bootstrap themselves by using a lot of incentives, frankly. And we're starting to come down on that, right?
00:22:09.244 - 00:22:18.130, Speaker C: Yeah, but they built a Skinner box is what they actually like, I think. What the thing that Osmosis did that.
00:22:18.220 - 00:22:21.260, Speaker A: What is that, Zachie? Sorry, what is a Skinner box?
00:22:22.270 - 00:24:13.498, Speaker C: A Skinner box is a system of very predictable rewards. So, like, you push a button, you get the reward, right? And the and the question becomes, you know, you are, you are doing the you are doing this the you are doing this question of, you know, what is this? You know, what is the Skinner box in this scenario? Um, and the question then becomes, what Osmosis built was this every day at the epoch time, they distributed a bunch of LP rewards and then people needed to so there was this long period of time of really daily engagement with the Osmosis protocol among a large population of early Cosmos people. And I think that was probably the thing that built that user base. And I think the other thing that I think has been successful about these exchanges, right, is probably more than any other application in crypto, the users built a model of what a centralized exchange was, and then we eventually built DEXes that fit that model well enough that people were like, okay, I get what this is, too. And so that conceptual understanding of what it is that you're interacting with, I think has been a very powerful feature of these systems.
00:24:13.594 - 00:25:16.182, Speaker A: It is an interesting observation because if you're a builder in crypto, you definitely have to think there's a little bit of a and I think Cosmos, frankly, is like way ahead of the curve in terms of ecosystems, in terms of, like, how can I build the best product? But I think a lot of founders also think of where they're building in terms of L One ecosystems as distribution as well. And right now, Ethereum has the most users, right, as an L1. But it's a very interesting observation to make, I think, at least to me, that maybe there's less lock in on kind of the L One ecosystem if you look at it over time. Initially, Bitcoin was the first kind of software ecosystem that attracted the initial developers, and obviously that's not necessarily the case anymore. And today Ethereum is kind of the juggernaut. But like, Cosmos and Salana and other L1s have attracted a lot of developers over time. And really some of the stickiest relationships are actually like MetaMask or Coinbase or potentially openc.
00:25:16.182 - 00:26:37.194, Speaker A: So it's just a very interesting observation as to which apps might be sticky in a crypto environment because it's hard to predict ultimately. It's still pretty early days for that, I guess, just to wrap up this sort of line of thinking, I'd be curious, when you look at some of the stickiest web two products, especially the sort of marketplace products, it's kind of hard to tease out how much is aggregating demand versus aggregating supply. Obviously, when you're bootstrapping those two sided marketplaces, you need both to happen at the same time, right? So, like Amazon with their sort of network of merchants, or Airbnb with its network of hosts and suppliers, or Uber with its drivers, et cetera. I'd be curious, how do you see those moats sort of playing out in crypto when you look crypto is a little bit of like an open source, like lowering switching costs type environment. Have you seen any, outside of the exchanges that we've talked about? Have you seen any examples of successful moats in crypto around aggregating demand? Or what do you think that might look like in a crypto environment as opposed to web Two?
00:26:37.232 - 00:27:29.740, Speaker D: I think it's worth mentioning that the bootstrapping phase is pretty different from the kind of like the maintenance phase. I'm sure you had a similar experience, like the first time you used Uniswap. There wasn't really a comparable experience. You were kind of just playing with it. It was kind of the only place to get random coins in 2017. So you were pretty insensitive to anything but just any supply whatsoever being there. That looks pretty different today, where I think that they have a very strong customer relationship and very strong brand that allows them to be more kind of mobile across different chains, different L2 S.
00:27:29.740 - 00:27:55.300, Speaker D: And so they've carried their customer relationships so that wherever they go yeah. So the moat, I mean, kind of building the moat is an accretive process that happens over a long time. And I think it starts with.
00:27:58.890 - 00:27:59.254, Speaker C: Building.
00:27:59.292 - 00:28:11.850, Speaker D: The Skinner box early, I guess, and then kind of building some kind of liquidity flywheel or trust flywheel that allows you to kind of retain users.
00:28:15.310 - 00:29:23.360, Speaker C: Yeah. I think that there are relatively few applications with moats in cryptocurrency, which goes back to the general reality, which is that there are very few applications with users in cryptocurrency. The application layer has continued to lag behind all of the other hype and bits and pieces and things going on in the, in the crypto ecosystem. Right. And so there is, to my mind, not really a doubt here that one of the biggest challenges of imagining the future of crypto is that at some point, if this whole industry is to succeed, the future has to look a lot less like what the present is.
00:29:25.510 - 00:29:30.980, Speaker D: Yeah. I mean, today just the absence of bridges has been a big moat, right?
00:29:32.070 - 00:29:32.820, Speaker C: Yeah.
00:29:37.290 - 00:29:38.630, Speaker B: Go ahead, Zachy.
00:29:39.050 - 00:30:18.650, Speaker C: Well, I would say there have been a variety of things that have been sources of aggregation of demand at the L One layer that are breaking down. Right. Like USDC also has, like availability of stablecoins. And specifically USDC has been a big moat in a lot of ecosystems. But with CCTP and sort of circle's vision of kind of USDC everywhere, that aggregation of demand layer is starting to break down. The other component has been like that. Yes.
00:30:18.650 - 00:31:16.254, Speaker C: With the exception of Cosmos, most other ecosystems didn't come with any Bridging built. So, like, once you got exchange a critical mass of exchanges onboarding onto your platform, pretty much, then that was where everybody stayed. You could aggregate demand on that layer. But all of those moats are sort of temporary to the immaturity of the industry rather than a permanent features of the system. And so, ultimately, the only thing that the last 60 40 year history of consumer computing has told us is that applications are really where people where the stickiness occurs. Right. Going back to the ultimate sticky application like Microsoft Excel.
00:31:16.302 - 00:32:13.350, Speaker B: And I think a lot of the value of L One is based off of how differentiated the apps built on top of them are. But I do think that that presents a natural tension. Right. As those apps become more differentiated, then they're going to want to own more of the stack and take those users with them. I'm curious how you guys think about block space and this idea on the supply side, right? Is it going to be completely commoditized, or do you see some merit in this idea of there being, like a premium block space to, say, ethereum l one that will always retain a large amount of, I guess, market share in terms of value to the amount of transactions versus other sort of environments? Or is block space just going to be completely commoditized across the board? How do you think about validating or invalidating that thesis?
00:32:14.410 - 00:33:42.898, Speaker D: Love this question. I've been thinking about it a so my opinion is blockspace is not a uniform resource. So blockspace on Osmosis is not the same as like blockspace on Ethereum, first of all, obviously and block to block and even with inter block or intra block, block space is not uniform. So it's a highly context sensitive resource. And the main thing that application specific chains are doing is basically giving you more kind of granular control over the shape of the resource in the first place, like what you can do within a block or what you can't do within a block and how the market is structured. So who is able to buy what the auction or kind of marketplace looks like? And I think that there absolutely is some commodity block space, I think particularly for kind of time insensitive transactions. So if I'm sending a payment to my grandmother or something I kind of don't care if it takes like 5 minutes to get there, it'll get there.
00:33:42.898 - 00:33:45.460, Speaker D: She's not going to check for another ten days.
00:33:46.650 - 00:33:50.680, Speaker A: Better hope your grandma's not listening to this. Sam. Just trash like that.
00:33:52.650 - 00:34:08.890, Speaker D: But there are transactions that you send that can get front run or sandwiched and that's a very different kind of mode of interacting with the base resource.
00:34:10.850 - 00:35:23.902, Speaker C: So my opinion about the value of block space really comes down to my perception that blockspace is primarily valued by the accessible network of counterparties in that block space. The reason Ethereum block space is valuable is because of the large number of counterparties and integrations and whatnot. But the flip side of that is that there are tipping points in block space or like networks of blockchains where you get to a critical mass of counterparties and then the advantage erodes dramatically. And so, you know, I think in a lot of the Fat protocol sort of thesis that we're here to we're arguing against and we're trying to invalidate.
00:35:23.966 - 00:35:24.580, Speaker D: Here.
00:35:26.410 - 00:36:36.618, Speaker C: There'S a tendency to ethereum block space has the most economic security, therefore it is the most valuable block space. And it's this tautology, right? And I think the actual answer is Ethereum has enormous, has first mover advantage, has deep integrations across lots of different counterparties, is essentially the de facto first integration point for many services and therefore has network effects around that. But the likely future is more of an evening out of that where there are other places where large number of counterparties are willing to are available and engaged in a system allowing them to. And so how does that translate into the future value of the future aggregation of demand and the future aggregation of value on Ethereum? L1, I think it's an open question. I'm not trying to be completely down on Ethereum, I'm just saying that it's a bit of. An open question.
00:36:36.704 - 00:37:30.790, Speaker D: Uniswap is the largest consumer of Ethereum block space. I don't know the exact numbers, but it's pretty significant. I think Openc is like number two or something like that. And if Uniswap is expanding into L2s and other chains, and likewise OpenSea is doing the same, should Ethereum be worried about the value of its block space being eroded? Because the amount that you pay for a L2 transaction is like fractions of what you might pay for an L One settlement. Those are questions that, as an app chain developer, you start to ask yourself.
00:37:30.880 - 00:38:24.942, Speaker B: Yeah, I totally agree. I mean, I think number of counterparties and integrations is one kind of lens to look at this and I think maybe something more lasting for Ethereum L One is that maybe there will always be some class of transactions that are just so important, right, that people will not trust anything other than Ethereum L One. But on the other side of the spectrum, that to me I could see as being very high value. But on the other side of the spectrum, I think, Sammy, you were alluding to it is being able to really optimize the block space for your application both in terms of UX benefits and value capture, where if you think about like mev, that's where it gets into this sort of stuff. Yeah, I don't know what the opportunity is for something that's in the middle of that, but I think in general that's where I see the most value in terms of the block space.
00:38:25.076 - 00:39:41.894, Speaker A: Guys, I've got sort of a concept that I want to introduce to both you and the listeners as well. And this is sort of the last analogy we'll borrow from aggregation theory, but there's a concept that maybe even is actually a little bit adjacent to aggregation theory, but it's one that sort of describes where value accrues in different supply or value chains. So I'm actually going to share my screen here quickly so people who are following along via YouTube can actually get a little bit of a visual representation. But the Smiling curve is a framework that it was actually introduced from, I think Acer Miles, the name of the company. It's a Taiwanese company and it was used to describe kind of the early PC value chain. And the reason why it's a Smile is he sort of bifurcated into three different areas, which is the base part of the value chain, which is kind of R and D, right, which is secured by patents and technology. Then there's a middle, which is kind of fabrication, and then there's the part that's closest to the consumer, which is marketing and that the lock in there is kind of brand and service and all that sort of thing.
00:39:41.894 - 00:40:35.266, Speaker A: And if you look at where value accrues, the reason it's a Smile is because at the very start of the value chain, there's a lot of enterprise value that gets created with patents and technology and kind of that R and D that's very hard to do. Then there's a lot of value that gets created around the brand and service, right, and kind of the consumer lock in, but it lags in the middle, which is around fabrication, which ultimately ends up being commoditized. And this is an analogy that has been used to describe a whole bunch of different industries. I'm wondering if there are places in crypto that this is applicable to, because a lot of what we're describing right now, I can sort of see the smile beginning to form when you think about app chains or app dedicated block space, which ends up being very valuable because it ends up having a relationship with the consumer.
00:40:35.298 - 00:40:35.446, Speaker B: Right.
00:40:35.468 - 00:41:11.250, Speaker A: And there's some kind of brand attachment and stickiness. Maybe it's at the wallet side, maybe it's at the decentralized. We don't know exactly yet, right? There's an end state, but we sort of see that. Then maybe there's kind of this premium block space, right, that maybe it's ethereum, maybe it's not, but there's kind of premium block space here. I'm wondering if there's kind of a middle layer. To be honest, in a lot of discussions I see about, the easiest analogy that I see here is like L2s. Frankly, like generalized L2s seem like they are highly at risk of being commoditized.
00:41:11.250 - 00:41:25.954, Speaker A: But I'm curious, when we look at that smile, does anything stand out in terms of analyzing sort of crypto value chains or what do you guys think about that analogy as it applies to crypto?
00:41:26.082 - 00:43:09.318, Speaker C: The ethos of the space is so fixated on. One thing that's very unique compared to the ordinary technology industry is how much of the most R and D heavy parts of the industry eventually get manifested as open source. Systems where the technology is, where there's no IP protection around the technology or very limited IP protection around the technology, or honestly, even if you can put years of R and D into something, and once you release it, it's pretty common in this industry in crypto, that if you have something that's a substantial innovation, people are able to cream room reimplement it relatively fast because there's no patents in this space. There's just copyrights, really. And I don't expect patents to start playing a major role in this space anytime in the near future. So in that world, it's like basically all you're doing with your there's this weird feedback cycle where what you're earning with your very intensive computer science R and D is essentially like a marketing and a brand position. And then the thing that is the monetization layer and the distribution layer that you earned with doing a lot of intense R and D is the brand marketing, networking layer, distribution layer.
00:43:09.414 - 00:43:38.420, Speaker D: You already kind of mentioned this, but the smiling curve basically defines where the monopolies are in a traditional business. Like, patents are intellectual property monopoly and brands a kind of trust monopoly with the user. And the fabrication process in this instance is commoditized, although it's kind of changing with TSMC and just the kind of unique fabrication capabilities there.
00:43:39.110 - 00:43:46.694, Speaker A: That's actually a cool TSMC really flipped that on its head, frankly, that story. But that's a story for another time.
00:43:46.732 - 00:44:16.270, Speaker D: Sorry. Go Sam. Yeah, we could talk about that offline. So I completely agree with Zachi. Patents kind of aren't available to you. The monopoly on that side. If you're going to try to kind of retain an R and D monopoly, you basically have to have a sustained organizational knowledge advantage.
00:44:16.270 - 00:45:09.882, Speaker D: So I do think that some of these ZK kind of shops that have aggregated the best ZK researchers in the space could potentially have a kind of sustained advantage there, but you're not locked in in the same way as well as some ASIC hardware and now some of the ZK asics things like that. If you're going to be doing a bunch of research there and roll out a bunch of those kind of supply constrained machines, I could see you potentially getting a monopoly. But yeah, the vectors of competition are just like a little bit different with the kind of open source mentality.
00:45:09.946 - 00:46:07.338, Speaker B: That's interesting because when I looked at this graph and I was trying to think about this maps over to our space, I honestly thought from the seat of an application developer that the left side, the R and D. Side is something like moving dYdX moving to its own app chain because it can build a differentiated product that way versus any sort of order book dex that is built on a monolithic chain. And the right side I saw more as like uniswap moving to its own wallet, right, getting closer and finding new ways to build brand and improve their marketing abilities, I guess. Do you see in the end game where these super apps will actually be both or potentially once you move to your own full stack app chain, then you're going to be motivated to build the wallet. Or once you build a wallet, then you'll be motivated to eventually move to your own app space.
00:46:07.524 - 00:47:02.498, Speaker D: Well, I guess I would say that dYdX already is that in a way, the only reason it's able to move is because they own the customer relationship. They have a fantastic brand, they are the DeFi perpetuals protocol and users would not go through that kind of pain if they didn't already have that lock in and fantastic customer relationship. Again, just kind of getting back to where you're entering into the market. There's probably ways to enter in with an R and D advantage before people have kind of understood what's going on. I think ZK is this there were very few ZK researchers until a couple of years ago. And if you can get a first mover advantage there, you can kind of move into more of like a consumer facing relationship.
00:47:02.664 - 00:47:35.982, Speaker B: That's great, I guess. Speaking of dYdX, before we came on, we were talking about validation or invalidation signals of this thesis to you longer term. We were talking about the importance of dYdX within that context. Right. If this works, I think it's a massive validation signal. I'd love to just kind of hear you expand either of you guys on that, if it's dYdX or if there are other sort of validation invalidation signals that you're really paying attention to.
00:47:36.036 - 00:49:30.414, Speaker C: I will say that the dYdX and I've been working closely with them, and many people in the Cosmos ecosystem have been working closely with them. So this is not purely an outsider perspective, but it is without any doubt in my mind that what we're doing with Duidx will be either like a tremendous validation of the App chain thesis or a demonstration that the pieces are not in place because we have to succeed collectively in taking that and migrating a very high threshold of their customer relationship which is currently on a Starkx platform l Two on Ethereum and migrating them to Cosmos. And if we're not successful in doing that, it's a huge demonstration of this is a problem. On the other hand, one of the other things that I think is most interesting about dYdX is they are legitimately building an app chain. I think a lot of the decentralized exchanges in Cosmos and a lot of the users of the Cosmos SDK are building what are effectively L1s that benefit from IBC network effects but are not truly app chains. And I think we have a lot of things coming in the Cosmos ecosystem. And I think it's actually a relatively small population of Cosmos chains that have been going down the app chain route.
00:49:30.414 - 00:50:39.302, Speaker C: I think we've been trying to do that with some we are actually been doing that with Similia. I think that the dYdX team, by essentially building a custom mem pool, building all these pieces, building a thing that is basically there to allow people to have the centralized exchange scale and order experience on a decentralized order book or like an order book that teleports around the world every 6 seconds or every 5 seconds. It's such an amazing vision. I think it can be like people, if it works, will blow people's minds about what is possible with an app chain that you're like, no, you can't do this on any L1. No matter how fast the L1 is, you can't do this. Right. I think it is genuinely an opportunity to blow people's minds about how easy it was to migrate the customer relationship and what is possible in a decentralized setting that I don't think has ever been done before.
00:50:39.302 - 00:50:52.078, Speaker C: And so I do think that that is right now very much the ecosystems, even the entire app chain thesis is sort of flagship endeavor right now.
00:50:52.244 - 00:52:28.266, Speaker D: Zach and I have both done our fair share of trying to shield the Cosmos SDK and the Cosmos stack to people. And usually where the kind of two things that I first you talk about IBC and then you basically talk about kind of transaction control at two levels. Like, one is the fee model and the other is within consensus. And really, just this year, I've been really encouraged to see some extremely creative and kind of high performing teams doing kind of innovating on both of those levels. And these are things that you can't do with a kind of commoditized or monolithic L1 applications having complete control over every step of the kind of feed mechanism. So that would be kind of early validation for me, but completely agree with Zachie that dYdX just in terms of kind of magnitude of liquidity and the experience that they're trying to deliver to users would be major validation. Although one instance I don't think is enough to kind of prove out the.
00:52:28.288 - 00:53:52.438, Speaker B: Thesis that makes a lot of sense and kind of good segue into my next question. We talked about this on the first episode, but kind of look at this as a spectrum from a full stack app chain like you have with Cosmos app chains to maybe a Celestia Sovereign roll up. And then on the other side of the spectrum, we have app specific roll ups on Ethereum. And I think, Sam, you just got into this a little bit, but what would you point to as the real marginal benefits in terms of customizations that are possible when you own the full stack as a app specific L1 versus becoming an app specific L two or an L three, right? I think a lot of people will look at this dYdX move and it's successful, and they'll say, all right, was that because they own their own block space and they have more? Does that same benefit map over to an app specific L three, which is maybe cheaper for me. So I'd just love to kind of unpack what you would if you were to show the full stack app chain and why full stack over app specific roll up both today and also maybe in the future where some things like interoperability are taken care of to kind.
00:53:52.444 - 00:54:35.490, Speaker D: Of couch this a little bit. I think all these are, like, valid ways to build an application that is kind of the Cosmos ethos is like, Ethereum is an app chain. It just is an app chain that's trying to do lots of things for lots of people. And and but I do think that there is a certain class of applications that really would benefit from full stack control. I think the two kind of largest privacy applications or the ones that I've kind of worked with most closely, penumbra and Enoma, are great examples. It's just stuff that you can't really do even on an L two. It's very challenging.
00:54:35.490 - 00:55:55.710, Speaker D: There's solutions like Aztec, but Aztec has like a ten minute finalization time or something. And Penumbra is building a fully private decks with like, I mean, just the level of functionality that the users can have available to them is absolutely wild. And you need the ability to have the consensus mechanism, recognize the fee token and be able to validators, need to be able to validate proofs. There's just like a lot that you need to do integrating the, the execution with the entire application then and then in the middle there is modular applications. And I'm definitely like bullish Celestia for sure. And Zach and I have been talking to them for a long time. I think there's an enormous class of applications that you can build on Celestia.
00:55:55.710 - 00:57:21.658, Speaker D: There is a segment that you cannot. And basically the idea behind modularization is that there are kind of defined boundaries between the different kind of utilities. So data availability, consensus settlement, execution. And the idea there is you're not supposed to be breaking those boundaries or they have kind of all these different names for a sovereign roll up versus an enshrined roll up. And what they're doing there is basically they're saying that okay, in this instance you're allowed to kind of break a single boundary and have this part of the application interact with this other part. And a fully sovereign application basically says that okay, I need like full stack control over every part of every module because there are optimizations that require boundary breaking. I think that there's lots of different valid ways to build an application.
00:57:21.824 - 00:57:58.626, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that makes sense. I think people think about app chains and often the first thing they think of is vertical integration for higher value capture. But what gets me more excited is more about the applications that have that wow factor, right? So something that is a differentiated user experience because it's built on a full stack app chain. And I think teasing out some of those true differentiated capabilities as you go across the spectrum and what you lose as you go across that spectrum is really what we're trying to get a good sense of this season.
00:57:58.738 - 00:58:36.478, Speaker A: That's going to tease into next episode as well, where we really get into the weeds of what are the different trade offs between these different models. And again, there's no like, reasoning by analogy is sort of imperfect by definition, but there are lots of good reasons when you look at traditional supply chains of where to vertically integrate and where it makes sense versus where it doesn't make sense. And you've seen examples of companies and supply chains vertically integrating, you've seen examples of supply chains intentionally unvertically integrating as well, right, to try to give them some relief from different fluctuations in demand.
00:58:36.574 - 00:58:53.766, Speaker D: I do think that there will be cosmos applications that outsource a very specific part of their application stack to another entity like Celestia for instance, in order to cut costs and kind of focus on their kind of core business.
00:58:53.868 - 01:00:27.662, Speaker C: I also wanted to put one last little bit into the whole thing, which is and I don't think we haven't really talked about this in this conversation, but I think it's an important thing to cover, which is the basic idea of the minimum viable application specific blockchain stack. And basically the way that I kind of view it as is like the minimum viable thing is some way of sequencing or producing blocks, some way of bridging in and out of the ecosystem and some sort of toolkit that gets you network effects where you can integrate with wallets block explorers and stuff like that. You don't have to essentially create the entire universe from nothing. That's what I kind of view as the minimum viable stack. And what you're seeing is the Cosmos SDK was the first bit of a viable the Cosmos stack was sort of the first bit of a viable application specific blockchain stack you are seeing right now, the rise of other minimum viable. And so I don't know that I would say that there's a big difference between I expect there to be big differences between different instances of midabo viable stacks. But what the problem is that we're still at a point where we can't really point yet to anyone else having a minimum viable stack and compare and contrast it against Cosmos SDK.
01:00:27.726 - 01:00:53.294, Speaker A: It's a very good point. Very good point. Zach and a great place to end. And guys, Zachie and Sam, thank you so much for this has been a great episode where I think we've really dug into the nuance of some pretty fascinating topics, and I think you've given Miles and I some ideas that we're going to explore for the rest of the season. So guys, if folks want to find out more about you or follow the work that you do, or what's the best way for people to find out more about you?
01:00:53.332 - 01:01:04.650, Speaker D: Both yeah, you can find me on Twitter at hxrts. I'm around. Also pretty available in DMs. If you want to learn more about.
01:01:04.660 - 01:01:14.980, Speaker C: The Cosmos ecosystem, I'm at Zmanian on Twitter. That's usually the best place to find me still, for as long as Twitter stays up.
01:01:15.910 - 01:01:25.302, Speaker A: Oh, boy. All right, ending on a dire note there, guys, thank you so much. This has been a fascinating conversation. Yeah, we'll have to do it again soon. All right, buddy. That was a great episode. What'd you think?
01:01:25.356 - 01:02:01.346, Speaker B: Really enjoyed really enjoyed talking to Sam and Zackie. I think we dove into the weeds quite a bit on the first episode with Sonny and Dimitri, and I think this balanced it out pretty well by kind of zooming out a little bit and thinking about how to apply a lot of these concepts to what we see of the forces of traditional companies and marketplaces. And I think aggregation theory is a great framework to think about this stuff and is rarely kind of talked about, I think, in this crypto native space.
01:02:01.448 - 01:03:04.146, Speaker A: Well, I think we came into this episode hoping to sort of reorient our listeners from this sort of implicit bias maybe towards fat protocols to one, to a lens of the world where really value might accrue to the kind of app chain, close proximity to the consumer and then everything below might get commoditized. And I think we did that. But ultimately I really enjoyed this episode because I think we took a pretty nuanced look at that whole value chain and examined it through a more traditional lens that you might look at supply chains and exactly those different forces that interact on supply chains. And you get so little of that in crypto because there's kind of this for so long it's been this magical internet money and normal forces of supply and demand don't necessarily apply. But I think you and I don't have that view and that you can apply somewhat traditional frameworks or analytical frameworks to where value is going to accrue to this space. And I think we had some pretty fun discussions around that in this episode.
01:03:04.178 - 01:03:53.174, Speaker B: Yeah, absolutely. I think I totally agree that most crypto protocols, both applications and L1s, are marketplaces to some degree matching supply and demand. And we got into really, I think, what is an observation that I think the focus to date has really been about controlling the supply side. Whereas where we think this is going is moving towards these apps wanting to control really the apps that own the demand side will eventually have the leverage right over these general purpose platforms and how that plays out and whether they're expanding up into wallets or down into chains. I think that teasing out a lot of this stuff was very interesting.
01:03:53.292 - 01:04:27.870, Speaker A: I think there's been a bias in crypto towards making supply driven arguments when it comes to investment. And maybe you can trace that to bitcoin and it's hard cap 21 million coin supply and you sort of see that borrowed a little bit. I know you think about this a little differently, but in ultrasound money, the ETH meme, and there's been an enormous focus towards restricting the supply of ETH. And frankly, if you look at some of the most compelling outcomes in web two, they've been demand based stories and controlling demand as opposed to supply.
01:04:28.030 - 01:05:06.000, Speaker B: Yeah, 100%. And I think speaking about this in the context of block space is really interesting because I do see a future where there could be a premium of block space which I consider to be supply for, say, ethereum L1. But at the same time, the apps are going to want to get more opinionated and specialized with their own block space both to improve the product, the user experience, and also to improve their amount of value accrual. And so I think there's going to be it's a natural tension that is kind of the motivation for this whole season. Right.
01:05:08.130 - 01:05:28.802, Speaker A: And blockspace premium is a pretty interesting way of framing that. And there's sort of generalized block know, which Ethereum sort of has and then there's app specific block space, which is what we're exploring with app chains. And frankly, you know, I think the jury is still out on which type of block space accrues a higher premium.
01:05:28.866 - 01:05:29.046, Speaker C: Right.
01:05:29.068 - 01:05:47.866, Speaker A: You could see there being like ultra premium block space for decentralized exchanges, for instance. And maybe that's ultimately, because it's specialized in that block space, you tend to have more granularity and control over fees. Maybe that ultimately ends up funnelly being more valuable than any sort of generalized block space. We just don't know.
01:05:47.968 - 01:06:37.114, Speaker B: Yeah, I think I view premium block space. First of all, there will not be more than one, I think, environment for premium block space. And I think about it more on the axes of security and censorship, resistance and really making no trade offs right to the benefit of the applications, because that's what you're prioritizing. And I do think that there's probably a space for that. But how much value that premium block space captures versus the rest of the market and how much activity moves to these specialized app environments where they can optimize the block space for their use case also impacts how much of that general purpose ETH l one captures in terms of the overall market cap of the space.
01:06:37.312 - 01:07:12.710, Speaker A: Yeah, the last point that I kind of want to make on this episode was I really agreed with I forget if Zach or Sam made this point that we are just so far from sort of the end state of crypto and the vast majority of the use case is people just doing financial speculation. You know, I think there's this sort of consensus agreement that this is not ultimately how people are going to be using crypto, but it's very difficult to get a line of sight to what that end state does look like because we're a little ways off from that right now.
01:07:12.860 - 01:08:06.694, Speaker B: No, I totally agree and say we were in a world where there was thousands of applications, decentralized applications that are used by billions of users. I think at that point you can see an obvious aggregator in terms of something like a super wallet, right, that is basically in the same way that search helps people sift through the Internet and basically go from intent to action faster. Right. You could see a wallet kind of doing the same thing, but today there's just not enough valuable activity to aggregate and so I think there's still a lot of green space there both at the application level and maybe the applications become their own wallets. Right. So I think that we are still so extremely early and it's hard for an aggregator to exist when you're this early.
01:08:06.812 - 01:09:05.610, Speaker A: 100%. The wallet idea is an interesting one because you and I sort of went into this episode thinking if there was something that looked like a Web Two aggregator in Web Three or crypto, it's probably wallets. Jason's been talking a lot and he did an episode on Empire about wallet wars and it's just funny because A, you can go all the way back, people were talking about the wallet wars in 2017 or 2016. You can actually find threads on Twitter and on the one hand you haven't really seen that play out. Like a lot of people thought that wallets are going to be more important than they are. On the other hand, you look at something like MetaMask, and it has early indications of it being sticky. For no offense to MetaMask being there are a lot of flaws with the product, I would say it definitely could be improved on, and yet it still tends to be a very sticky thing that I'm the same way like MetaMask was my first wallet, and I use it primarily for the vast majority of what I do.
01:09:05.680 - 01:09:41.586, Speaker B: Yeah, I totally agree. And that's why I think know differentiating in terms of a general purpose. Wallet hasn't really been able know unseat MetaMask, but the real signal will be the success of Uniswap Wallet and OpenSea Wallet. Right. If some large percentage of all MetaMask transactions are attributed to those applications and then those applications build their own wallet, that will be a big signal to see just how many of those users migrate to the apps that they're using most and the wallets for those apps.
01:09:41.618 - 01:09:42.054, Speaker C: Right.
01:09:42.172 - 01:09:47.254, Speaker B: In the same way that I think dYdX is also a big validation or.
01:09:47.292 - 01:10:05.230, Speaker A: Invalidation signal and we knew dYdX was a big deal going into this season. It was interesting to hear from Zachie and Sam just about how much of a bellwether or an indicator, forward looking indicator. This is for sort of the whole app chain thesis, so no pressure. Antonio.
01:10:05.970 - 01:10:08.878, Speaker B: Exactly. We're all counting on you.
01:10:08.964 - 01:10:35.142, Speaker A: Got the hopes of a whole sector and idea riding on you, buddy. So yeah, good luck. Miles, you want to talk a little bit? We started to get into the very last portion of the discussion about sort of trade offs between a full stack monolithic app chain versus one that's more modular, sort of the Celestia model versus one that's sort of built on Ethereum. We were kind of getting into that design space difference and that's what we're going to be focusing on primarily in the next episode. And I don't know if you want to tease it a little bit.
01:10:35.196 - 01:11:49.870, Speaker B: Yeah, I think, as I've said before, that's really kind of digging into the differences in terms of what you can do with the product, what you can get in terms of value accrual between a full stack app chain to a modular app specific roll up to an app specific roll up on Ethereum. Either l two or l three. That's one of the biggest questions for me in this show and I. Think that Zachy I liked his framework that he used around a minimum viable stack, right? And so far, we've only seen apps in action that are using the Cosmos stack. But soon we'll see basically a stack emerge on the modular side and we're seeing lots more. I would say roll up stacks emerge on the ethereum side. Whether it's bedrock from optimism or slush that's building an SDK for StarkNet roll ups and just kind of mapping what the benefits are from the Cosmos SDK full stack to those other minimum viable stacks and seeing just how many you can bring with you.
01:11:49.870 - 01:12:06.626, Speaker B: Because frankly, the Cosmos full stack is expensive and it is risky and we don't have a lot to compare it to. You know, I think we'll talk to some folks on the next episode who are in a great position to kind of dive into that.
01:12:06.648 - 01:12:54.942, Speaker A: And I'm really know it's expensive and it's risky and it's hard. Sam kind of made this point right at the end of that last episode of you might actually see some chains that started out trying to be full stack, monolithic app chains. They might actually say, hey, if you've got kind of execution and product, and then there's all these things that need to happen underneath settlement, data availability, consensus, maybe. We don't really want to do all that because bootstrapping a network of validators is just not what we do really well. We want to just focus on that top app chain. And lots of examples of this, again, in traditional supply chains, of just wanting to focus on the one area that you want to play and you have a competence and you'll outperform. So it'll be interesting to see if we UN verticalize or unbundle.
01:12:55.006 - 01:12:55.582, Speaker B: Unbundled.
01:12:55.646 - 01:12:57.240, Speaker A: Unbundled. Thank you very much.
01:12:58.650 - 01:13:31.310, Speaker B: Yeah, I think it'll be interesting to see how much of the stack is unbundled. And also I think which Zachie got into is how much horizontal expansion will app chains be able to accomplish without, I guess, dealing with scope creep and really deteriorating the UX of the core product. Like, we're seeing a lot of sector specific app environments or app chains now. So, yeah, I think lots more to come on the season, but next one should be a great one too.
01:13:31.460 - 01:13:34.010, Speaker A: Agreed, buddy. All right, I'll see you for that episode.
01:13:34.170 - 01:13:35.130, Speaker B: Sounds good. See ya.
