00:00:04.650 - 00:00:24.978, Speaker A: What up? Coordination. On this podcast episode, I've got Daniel Schmachtenberger. He's returning. This is my third episode with Daniel Schmachtenberger, and I think that I get a DM like once every other week asking me when the next episode with Daniel is coming out. So I'm finally really excited to have an answer to that question. He's back. We're talking about the metacrist.
00:00:24.978 - 00:01:49.520, Speaker A: This and how we could use Web Three to address it, how we can map out the different vertical and horizontal areas of the metacrisis. And for those of you who are just tuning in, the metacrisis is basically this game theoretic idea of an underlying crisis driving a multitude of crises. So things like climate change, biodiversity collapse, existential AI risk, existential risk in general. And basically the idea is how can we use technology in order to help address or start to address the catastrophes, which is coordination failures, things like climate change, biodiversity collapse, but also the Dystopias that result from using governance systems, trying to solve for coordination failure, creating authoritarian governments through regulation that try to regulate coordination failures. How do we create a third attractor that creates coordination but without the Dystopia? That's kind of the idea of the Metacrisis, or I guess, one of the ideas with the metacrisis. So if you've listened to episodes one and two, you know that Daniel is just this incredibly articulate, lucid thinker who cares so deeply about figuring out how to address the Metacrisis because it's just so important and existential. And I really find Daniel to be this inspiring thinker and catalyst for thinking about how to think about the.
00:01:49.520 - 00:02:32.330, Speaker A: So in this episode, we kind of build on the work that was done in episodes one and two. If you haven't listened to Daniel Schmachniberg or Green Pill episode one and two, click the links in the show notes and listen to that first. I just gave you a quick TLDR, but listening to those episodes will be time well spent and definitely advise listening to episodes one and two before you listen to episode three. In episode three, we talk about creating an attractor for Web Three people to come together and start to build a taxonomy of the metacrisis. Metacrisisdao.com is the launch that we're doing on this episode today. So basically a discourse forum where people can come together and they can talk about the metacrisis.
00:02:32.330 - 00:03:05.394, Speaker A: Daniel has given us five prompts at the end of the episode about things that the Web Three community could start doing in order to address the metacrisis, to map out the metacrisis. So Metacristisdao.com is going to be this channel for people to come together and for the Web Three community to start supporting Daniel's work. And I'm just so excited to finally bring you this episode. Like I said, Daniel having Daniel back was one of my most requested audience requests over Twitter DMs. So I think I've said enough. Let's get on to the episode.
00:03:05.394 - 00:03:10.402, Speaker A: You are really going to love this one coordination. Without further ado, I give you Daniel Schmackenberger.
00:03:10.466 - 00:03:51.314, Speaker B: The Glow Dollar is a newstable coin with a very special property. As the market cap of Glow goes up, extreme poverty goes down. Glow is a dollar backed, non profit stablecoin that creates basic income for people living in extreme poverty. Glow is basically the same business model as USDC, with yield generating treasuries on one side and a stablecoin on ethereum on the other. But instead of being a for profit company, glow is a nonprofit that donates 100% of all yields from the Glow Reserve to Give Directly's basic Income Program. Give Directly is a charity that gives people money, no strings attached, to people living in poverty, and is a charity that Vitalik has previously donated to and supported in the past. With Glow, you can reduce poverty just by holding a stablecoin.
00:03:51.314 - 00:04:14.462, Speaker B: Glow is launching in early 2023 and you can join the waitlist@glowdollar.org greenpill. That's GL odollar.org greenpill. Working in Web three is awesome, but working outside of the typical W Two employee structure is a deal breaker for so many. Opolis is helping the self sovereign worker focus on what they do best. Their work tax time is coming up.
00:04:14.462 - 00:05:04.602, Speaker B: Opolis helps professionalize your business by helping you form an entity, generate proof of employment through Pay subs and receive a W Two at the end of the tax year. Are you self employed and forced to spend money on expensive healthcare insurance with limited coverage? Opolis leverages group buying power through a community employment coop, helping you save 20% to 50% on high quality, affordable healthcare options through Cigna. And finally, Opelis's member owners share in Opelis's success and profits based on their work token holdings. You must be authorized to work inside the United States in select Canadian provinces to receive Opelis's benefits. Book a 30 minutes free consultation with Opelis's experts and join Opelus by March 31, 2023 to get 1000 work and a thousand bank tokens. Go to Connect Opelis Co Bankless to get started. And if you're going to East Denver, make sure to stop by the Opelis booth or attend their Future of Work summit hosted by Opolis.
00:05:04.666 - 00:05:06.000, Speaker A: Hey, Daniel. What's up?
00:05:06.850 - 00:05:10.350, Speaker C: Hey, Kevin. Happy to finally be back for this episode.
00:05:10.690 - 00:05:45.020, Speaker A: Yeah, yeah, same. Glad to have you. Well, I guess we started off with doing an episode about what is the metacrisis was episode one. And then episode two, we started talking about criteria for addressing the metacrisis. And we were planning on doing an episode three and four, which were, I think, around how things like web three or technology in general could address the metacrisis. And I think that that got a little bit side railed. So I'd be curious kind of what you've been up to and how your thinking has evolved since we recorded episode two with respect to addressing the metacrisis with technology.
00:05:46.110 - 00:06:56.034, Speaker C: Yeah. So the reason I was excited to do this podcast series with you after we met at the you asked me to come to the Shelling Point conferences. There are so many people in the Web Three community that are focused on things that are pretty core to metacrisis stuff. How do we do better decentralized coordinations that can either denesitate institutions or actually enable institutions or fundamentally new kinds of institutions. Deal with the information singularity, deal with deep fakes, deal with corruption, deal with provenance, like really important things. And there's a pretty stark contrast from the hopes in those areas to where the space is at in terms of fulfillment on them and where most of the attention in the space has actually gone. And I do think that decentralized computing, uncorruptible ledgers, the whole field of kind of cryptographic tools that you'd call Web Three is an extremely important emerging area of tech.
00:06:56.034 - 00:08:33.466, Speaker C: It's not a single technology, obviously, but a suite of technologies where the technologies do portend really interesting solutions to some deep issues that are not like specific topic issues, but generalized underlying issues. They also make possible new issues that didn't exist before. And it's not that common that you get to be at the beginning of the emergence of an entirely new field of tech, especially in this kind of post internet era where it has the capability of having global autopoetic impact relatively quickly. And being able to shape such a space is a big deal. And specifically separating out all of the how can we inflate a token value from how do we actually identify the meaningful regenerative crypto economics project? I felt like you did an exceptional job of attracting the community of people who were interested in the actually interesting things. So, yeah, in our first podcast, it was let's kind of give this metacrisis frame what is the whole set of global, catastrophic risks and wicked problems the world is facing, and what are the underlying dynamics that give rise? To them to have some sense of what is actually needed, what is worth doing, what is a problem definition that is deep and rich enough to actually start to think about how one would go about solving it. And then in the second session, we actually mostly addressed the way that technologies can affect human values individually.
00:08:33.466 - 00:09:54.650, Speaker C: Like, have psychological effects on people and have cultural effects. Because the fact that a technology can have unintended consequences physically to the environment, like, you make a pesticide that you intend to be a pesticide and you didn't intend that it was going to cause cancer or things like that. There's physical externalities but there are also psychosocial externalities. And if you really want to ensure that the development of technologies doesn't cause psychosocial externalities that are negative and maybe ones that are positive and design it in got to kind of understand that. So that's where we left. And we were going to, like you said months ago, go into part three and start saying, okay, so what are novel problems that the blockchain space could cause? Because every new type of technology makes new possibility, new affordances, new capacities, and there are no such thing as new types of technology that don't have some harmful applications. So let's think through that and say how do we ensure that the positive relative to the negative applications are more likely to proliferate? How do we bind them? Is there regulation to put in mind? And whether we're talking about hard to penetrate, fucked up black markets or autopoetic social processes that once put into place, can never be changed.
00:09:54.650 - 00:10:35.282, Speaker C: You know, there are some kind of serious things to think about. There's also what are the most important and interesting problems that blockchain could solve. That whether or not they are the flashiest from a token value are like the ones that people who really want to solve global problems should think about. And we were going to address that, but obviously we don't know all the answers to that. We don't even know close to all the answers to that. Now I see why you're asking what's been nuisance. There are some major global institutions that asked the, that I work with to write, addendums to, or help them with their global risk report, global catastrophic risk reports.
00:10:35.282 - 00:12:01.380, Speaker C: And we're in the process of doing that. And some of that work will come out later this year. And being able to think through all of the emerging technology category areas, from synthetic biology to artificial intelligence, et cetera, and think through both what are the risks associated and the problems that could be solved, and what is the combo of the technology, the regulatory landscape, the incentives, et cetera, that could move it in the right direction. I asked you if you thought there was a group of people in your extended community that might want to do deeper research than has already been done on answering those questions regarding web three. And so we decided to do this podcast to not actually answer those questions, but to kind of state what the questions are, why they're important, as an invitation for people to participate who are interested in helping analyze how this emerging field of technology can should be guided in the kind of biggest frameworks possible, which I think is extremely exciting. And I think it's really rad that you took the initiative to start to put a format together where people could come collaborate. So that's where we're at here and I am excited to dive into the questions today.
00:12:01.830 - 00:13:12.006, Speaker A: Yeah, same. So one of the things that really stuck out from I forget if it was episode one or episode two that we did together, but I think you said something to the effect of a problem well understood is half addressed. And I think if I could summarize what you said about where we've been over the last four to six months. You were kind of doing these risk reports for institutions about the metacrisis and consulting on a one off basis. And this year instead of doing these one off reports for these individual institutions it's about building a community or a resource that's kind of like live updating and can help understand and address the meta crisis in a way that both respects its complexity and doesn't reduce it down. And that sort of serves us becoming more just understanding the metacrisis a little bit more. And it's kind of like the resource that can back future reports or future thinking that is with respect to the metacrisis.
00:13:12.006 - 00:13:26.000, Speaker A: So it feels like you're kind of like building institutions under you or like resources under you that can help enable understanding of the metacrisis and that'll enable other people to address it. Is that directionally how you think about it?
00:13:26.610 - 00:14:24.660, Speaker C: We talked in the first session about what are some of the things that are generator functions or underlying drivers of most of the issues. And we talked about things like perverse incentive that whether you're talking about climate change or species extinction or overfishing or corruption of political parties, perverse incentives are underneath that. So any work that can do a deeper job of being able to identify where the incentive of any company, country, department, individual is at ODS with the well being of others and the well being of the commons and particularly where people are in important representative positions and things like that, you can make improvements. So there's all the vertical areas but then there's things that kind of cut across them. And perverse incentive was an example. Externalities and decision making processes are an example. There's something inherent to the nature of the complexity of the world and the way we try to narrow it.
00:14:24.660 - 00:15:37.862, Speaker C: As soon as we moved to kind of beyond Dunbar little villages, the little Tribes division of labor, specialization it was a huge part of how lots of beneficial things came about in coordination. But you also end up getting a situation where because I'm not focused on the whole I'm focused on a part, I'm just making this kind of widget or I'm working in this domain, I can identify the metrics of success for that domain, optimize them. My incentive and my institutional mandate is to do that but it affects other things and it can have harmful effects other places. And so you can have places where the solution to one problem is making other problems worse and vice versa and then because some people know that, they push back on it. And so inherent to trying to narrow the problem space is one of the drivers of the metacrisis and yet somebody can't think about everything and work about on everything all the time and so there's a way to have kind of metacrisis or holistically informed considerations while still focusing on a part. Right? I'm working on something that is not everything. But I am cognizant of the fact that it affects everything.
00:15:37.862 - 00:17:10.646, Speaker C: And my goal is not just how do I make this cool tech that solves this problem, but how do I do that in a way where the totality of the effects are as omnipositive as possible and not other things? So in this particular thing that you and I are engaging in here and inviting people into the idea that people can work on research and development of addressing questions of how web three tech can cause problems that we want to think through, how to prevent and how it can help solve problems that we want to help advance. Holistically across all the fields. It's still not saying. Also then be thinking about that for AI and nuclear and sense bio it's still partitioning it to a subset of everything, but a subset that is more informed by how it interacts with everything else. And so I would say yeah, in general, trying to take groups and institutions that are focused on things and help them do it in ways that are more cognizant of what is outside of the space of their traditional consideration to improve the consideration set is definitely something that I'm trying to do. And I guess one other thing I'll say here is most of the time with new technology somebody develops and figures out new technology. It can be funded by government or by nonprofit research institutes or by the market, but the market funds a lot of it.
00:17:10.646 - 00:18:19.414, Speaker C: And even if university or whatever figured out the underlying tech, the market usually figures out how to implement it at scale and then it benefits something and it harms some other things like putting lead in gasoline or DDT or whatever and the regulatory processes to say, oh, you can't actually use that tech in that way. You got to get the lead out of the gasoline, got to stop. The DDT typically follow after the harm has happened by many decades and so they don't get to fix all the harm that's happened. They just are supposed to try to stop it. When you're dealing with leaded gasoline going in the air, you can do that. But you can't fix the fact that having lowered the world's IQ by a billion points through the effects of the gasoline going the lead going into nervous systems made an indefinite number of really fucking terrible choices that continue to affect the world forever. But as the speed of tech increases, if you do the same thing with synthetic bio where the thing that you put out is reproducing and if you try to regulate it later you can just never get it back, right? Or it's just operating way the fuck faster the world breaks.
00:18:19.414 - 00:19:15.806, Speaker C: You have to actually do a better job of thinking about the negative externalities and engaging the regulatory landscape ahead of time. A lot of people here might be bothered by this because they're like, fuck regulation. Governments are corrupt. But that's not an answer, right? The answer has to be how do we solve ensuring that people don't have a motive to do something that benefits something at some short time frame, but harms lots of stuff over some long time scale? How do we figure out how to do a better job with that? What's so interesting, every rare once in a while, there's an opportunity where a developing space does regulation first. Like, there's been this international treaty that nobody's allowed to mine Antarctica or mine the seabed. And now that resource pressures are kind of probably going to force that to happen before it's allowed to happen, there has to be this international regulatory process to say, how could that happen in environmentally friendly way? It's actually very interesting. It seems like a pain in the ass from a market capitalism point of view.
00:19:15.806 - 00:20:12.910, Speaker C: But if you really think of it from an existential risk point of view, you're like, well, of course that's necessary. So with crypto and with Web Three, if we were thinking about, okay, what are all the things that we think are cool that, if they really succeeded, could suck and or be not that important compared to the other things. We do a landscape analysis of how the tech should develop versus how it's likely to develop right now, what that delta is and how do we close it. Being able to think through that upfront and then say through. Education, through culture building of what is cool, through formal legal regulation, through investment groups that only invest in things that meet these criteria and not others. Like through the whole suite of capacities. How do we help steer that? I think that's a fucking amazing opportunity and that's what kind of I'm excited about here, is to be able to think through the steering of a fundamentally powerful technological domain more conceptually.
00:20:13.570 - 00:21:02.394, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think it's an amazing opportunity to sort of grasp the whole elephant. There's this whole idea that blind men grasping an elephant. Whoever grasps the trunk will think that it's a hose. Whoever grasps the tail will think that it's a robe. Whoever grasps the tusk will think it's a sphere, but none of them is truly grasping the whole elephant. And the metacrisis is kind of like this thing where you have to grasp all of the different dependencies, because if you tug the rope and then the elephant goes running, then you fuck over everyone else. And so that's why I think that what's really inspiring about you, Daniel, is not only can you address the problem, but you're also sort of galvanizing these resources in order to also grasp the whole elephant and then start to address well, hopefully we'll see address the metacrisis.
00:21:02.394 - 00:22:44.362, Speaker A: So it's at this point that I think that I will name drop Metacrisisdao.com, which is a resource that I am launching, which will be it's not a dow in the sense that there's no token or anything like that. It's just a discourse forum where people who are interested in your work that are web Three native can come and try to grasp the whole elephant. We can start to think about the metacrisis in a systemic way, a holistic way and we're kind of working forwards from what is the metacrisis, what are some criteria for evolving the metacrisis and then backwards from our knowledge of Web Three towards how could Web three and crypto being used to solve the metacrisis? And I think the a priori theory I think is that the metacrisis is all about avoiding catastrophes which is basically like coordination failures and then Dystopias, which are authoritarian governments that are sort of reacting to coordination failures and this idea of a third attractor which is finding a way that is not centralized in order to address the coordination failure. And for me it feels like a priori web Three is decentralized coordination. So we should be able to find some ways that web Three eventually will move away from doing monkey JPEGs and pump and dump schemes and solve actual systemic global coordination failures like the Metacrisis. And so anyway, Metacristis Dow is going to be a discourse forum and a telegram channel in which we all kind of start to try to support your work as much as possible, Daniel, but hopefully eventually get to building Web Three solutions that address the Metacrisis.
00:22:44.362 - 00:23:02.440, Speaker A: So for the listener out there who's interested in getting involved, metacrisisdao.com is going to be where we are going to be coordinating and it's just going to be a forum post and telegram channel and maybe eventually weekly or monthly community calls from there. So how can this community support you? Daniel is the.
00:23:04.490 - 00:24:04.620, Speaker C: Mean. I I'm super stoked that you're setting that up and I'm excited for the people that will come and I am grateful for the way you framed it. I would frame it a little differently. Is it's actually not about I don't really need people to support me. The people who are interested in public goods and regenerative crypto are already interested in the same stuff I'm interested in. It's more like the frameworks of thinking about these things that we've developed be helpful to think through the things that the people in the space are already innately interested in how to do that better. So public goods interest in the space has to do with the recognition that commons management is a big deal and that when we're talking about the oceans or we're talking about the totality of pollinators or biodiversity or atmosphere, we need to be able to do a fundamentally better job of global commons management than we currently do.
00:24:04.620 - 00:26:06.050, Speaker C: How do we do that? Are there ways that the affordances of the new technology make that more possible? That we can get the off chain world on chain adequately? To be able to do things like actually track externalities and make it to where the cost of an externality has to be internalized into the equation? Where the entirety of the market stops being perverse. And that's pretty humongous where you actually get to track decision making provenance in ways that will make corruption much harder. I think these are some of the most important kinds of things somebody could be working on. I think understanding some of the problem space just a little deeper to be able to really think through adequate solutions is really valuable. So, I know you're already engaged in this, but I would love if kind of following this, the other people that understand the kind of metacrisis frame and understand web three better than I do could come and speak to some of their specific thoughts on this. Like, I think it'd be great to have Matan and Primavera and Glenn Weil and Jordan Hall and Arthur Brock and all those folks because they've got a lot of very specific thoughts mahala on specifically how to do some of those things. I will say that it would be silly for us to not acknowledge that one of the biggest possibilities that the space may ever face, it's going to be facing right now, and it's huge, which is technologies emerge in relationship to other technologies, right? Without breakthroughs in metallurgy and manufacturing, I don't get breakthroughs in the weapons that require those tool making tools and vice versa, right? Without breakthroughs in GPUs, I don't get the comparable breakthroughs in AI.
00:26:06.050 - 00:27:19.180, Speaker C: And so we have to be looking at web three in light of the rest of the tool stack, in addition to the culture stack, financial stack, et cetera, that the world is looking at at the time of this. Recording chat, GPT and mid journey and the kind of totality of generator tech being available to the public is not only one of the most interesting stories in the world right now, but one of the most interesting inflection points in the entire history of humanity. Because when we think about technological revolutions, we think about how much the world changed when we figured out how to extract oil is a pretty fucking big deal. Figuring out how to increase the energetic process that our body does outside of our body, that powerfully. And so we went from half a billion people to 8 billion people really fast and we increased a total amount of calories per person consumed by 100 X. That's huge. Of course, some of the externality is that we are just destroying the planet's ability to continue to maintain us.
00:27:19.180 - 00:29:07.750, Speaker C: So there's a bunch of technological epochs that have been big where they're taking some human capacity and kind of externalizing it. AI is obviously taking the technology creation capacity that is novel to humans itself and externalizing it and putting it on a exponential self recursion loop, which is why it's such a unique fucking thing. It's why singularity is near and the focus on AGI takeoff is such a big thing. And I anticipate that the very limited capacities that GPT-3 going public has shown will be shown up by GPT Four, like whether through OpenAI or other leading companies in the space will be improved upon in the next month and couple months with public releases of technology that already exists. So much so that it will change fundamental things about the world radically, forever. Very specifically, I think Turing test passing content generation where humans really cannot tell if shit was produced by machines or humans across most categories and the speed at which that content can be produced is such a humongously world changing thing. And so how do you obviously the ability to make recursive relationships of those AIS? You already have the Facebook AI that curates existing content based on personalized data of the person to maximize behavioral metrics.
00:29:07.750 - 00:30:04.942, Speaker C: Now you can have content creation AIS that are not just taking the existing content humans are making but bespoke content based on personal harvested data about the person and then curation AIS and the intersection of those and you start to think about what type of propaganda and cult generation machine taking. The humans aren't rational actors because of behavioral econ and just pushing that to the fucking asymptote of how much we can make. That not the case. Polarization doubling down on bias hypernormal stimuli. There is another direction it could go, right? You could use it to do the opposite, which is personalized education and development to help people see other points of view and to become more rational actors and et cetera. There's way the fuck less incentive currently to do that direction than the other one. Now, is there a way that the relationship between web three tech and AI is particularly interesting? Yeah right.
00:30:04.942 - 00:31:54.382, Speaker C: If you start having this deep fake, ubiquitous deep fake thing does tech like rigorous identity start to become one of the most important things? I think that's probably very likely development, right? Do I know at least is this a human or a bot that is developing it? Things on the provenance of info that goes into something kind of info provenance tech I think become hugely important. So I think this is an area that deserves a tremendous amount of attention and I think we'll probably get a tremendous amount of attention. I wouldn't want it to suck up all the attention in a reactive way because how do we identify all of the externalities of like environmental externalities? Let's say we take the paper that was published since last time we talked on PFAS levels, fluorinated surfactant levels, crossing Planetary Boundaries globally published a couple months ago that showed that rainwater all around the world, even if you go off grid in the middle of Montana or Canada or whatever, your rainwater still has beyond EPA levels of fluorinated surfactants that are carcinogens. Whatever. I can't begin to describe what a humongous fucking thing this is. So can we have sensors, can we have IoT sensors, et cetera that are monitoring where that shit is. Coming from and where it is going and actually creating both legal accountability and enforcement of financial externalization of those costs.
00:31:54.382 - 00:33:09.990, Speaker C: Same with nitrogen effluent and phosphorus affluent that's causing dead zones. This is where guys like Greg Landua from Regen Network are looking at can we use some of these crypto tools to help the proliferation of soil regenerative technologies rather than soil depleting technologies? I think all of these applications are so profoundly interesting and fascinating. If rightly developed, I think the AI one is going to get going to get and deserves to get a huge amount of attention right away because I think it fundamentally portends changes about the nature of open society itself and all poparian ideas and all rational actor theory and all representative democracy. So I think that would be a really good kind of clarion call of coalescing the space to deal with that thing, but then wanting to simultaneously generate what is the whole problem set. Because if you can use, you can also use crypto as one of the tools to be able to bind AI for its more positive and less harmful applications. The combination of those things along with the nature of the social tech is capable of being used in problem solving technologies across all the areas.
00:33:11.930 - 00:33:55.830, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think there's an amazing opportunity to take all this really incredible technology that's creating existential capacity and use it for the public good and that's my greatest hope for what crypto can accomplish. So I know that we've opened up the aperture of a lot of possibility here. For me, the thing that is keep back coming back to is go to Metacristisdao.com, sign up to get the updates and we'll just be having discussions there. We'll be doing possibly at some point weekly and monthly community calls. We'll see what form things want to take and then I think that there will be work groups. I call them think feel groups because we're not paying anyone, so they're think field groups about different aspects of this.
00:33:55.830 - 00:34:40.440, Speaker A: And one of the things that I'm really excited about is that through my work and through the podcasts that we've done, you've already gotten to know some people in the web three space who are like for example, we talked about Stephen Reed and the map of your work that he did. And so this is an opportunity for people to get on your radar who are doing really good work in the space. And I think that the thing that I can do is just shed a shelling point for people to come and get involved and start using this tech for good. So Metacrisis l.com is where it's know. I'm curious what else you want to say before we wrap this episode. This is going to be a shorter episode, just a bridge episode to give people an update on what we've been up to.
00:34:40.440 - 00:34:51.846, Speaker A: I'm curious what the rest of 2023 looks like for you. Daniel and how what you're up to is going to EB and flow with the questions that we're asking at Metacrisis.
00:34:51.878 - 00:36:43.200, Speaker C: Dow yeah, so the questions that I would love to see really well populated, debated, thought through, I would like to see and kind of learn from. First one is thinking about the entire field of web three technologies. It would be good to even just kind of make a short taxonomy of what that means. What are all the types of technologies and kind of primary applications that are being thought of but in that space? What are all of the possible negative externalities, both physically and psychosocially that this space could either accelerate or exacerbate or novelly create? I would like to see some just deep workshopping on that where you just red team the fuck out of the idea of the positiveness of the crypto itself and say, okay, well, let's say we make uncorruptible ledgers for the provenance of information and science or whatever, so that people aren't going to be messing with the data, so we can do better. Open data, open science stuff that seems really good. Where is that not good? Well, let's say we have a situation like we happen to have in the world today, where you've got people doing viral hunting and then gain of function research on pathogens to make way more potentially dangerous virulent pathological pathogens. Hopefully in the name of how to develop anticipatory responses, vaccines, medicines, whatever it is.
00:36:43.200 - 00:37:56.646, Speaker C: But then publish those gene sequences, which maybe before cheap gene sequencers might have been a good idea. But then, say the technological landscape changes. Like it has and you have cheap gene sequencers and getting cheaper to where we're only a few years out on the current trajectory. If it doesn't change, which hopefully it will, of the ability to take the information about a genome and actually make it being really quite cheap and very decentralized and not something that only state actors have. And that even if you tried to regulate who are the companies that can make the gene printers? You could DIY it yourself. All right, well now if that new technology emerges, I want to be able to get those fucking gene sequences offline. Well, can I do that if I just made a situation where it's impossible to do that? Well, now we need to say, like, okay, is there some way to have an uncorruptible ledger, but that can have access protocols and various levels of access protocol? Obviously, if we're trying to deal with government stuff, there is shit that shouldn't be totally publicly available because it involves national security.
00:37:56.646 - 00:39:25.726, Speaker C: Stuff that saying where the most vulnerable infrastructure targets are out in the public is stupid, and yet you also don't want no provenance on information. So how do you think through those things? So I think if one starts to just really think through what are the technologies that and people have already been thinking through if you try to make a trustless system, are you actually making a system that will have cultural effects of less trust and on and on? I think a population of all of the positive, I mean all the possible negative applications of the tech including not just the obvious thing, but 2nd, 3rd order type things I think that would be extraordinarily useful not to discourage the space as a whole. If you look at what Bostrom did with super intelligence and kind of populating what are all the places where superintelligence could go wrong? I think the Web three version of that would be a good idea, right? What are the places it could go wrong? To really think about how to avoid that and how to steer that. That's the first thing I would really like to see. Be and the other thing, because if you then focus on the next part, which is the problems it can solve in the opportunities and you haven't done that other one, you might be wrong where yes, it might solve that thing but make some other worse shit in the process. You want to make sure you're not doing that. So that's why I'm making the order of operations.
00:39:25.726 - 00:41:29.730, Speaker C: The next step I would really like to see people engaging in and generating ideas on Is both by vertical topic area. Like by topic area you could say planetary boundaries and exponential tech X risk. Or you can make it much narrower and just say, dealing with weaponized drones and dealing with grid fragility and dealing with fragility of the Amazon, coral, et cetera. For each of those types of issues, does Web three tech by itself or in conjunction with other technologies, laws, projects enable solutions that are not currently existent? I think really trying to populate that how could it be not by itself? How could it be part of a suite of endeavors that enable new solutions? I think that's an extraordinarily rich useful process and I think web Three folks engaging with topic matter experts in major global risk areas and global problem areas, not just even global risk, even like SDGs and saying what are the hardest problems that you can't fix? What makes them wicked? And really trying to see is there anything about the affordances of this technology that could help solve that? That would be just amazing to populate and to kind of taxonomize and that's kind of the vertical divisions, the deeper horizontal divisions are things like the generator functions. How could we address perverse incentive writ large or in different contexts how could we address commoning writ large? How could we address internalizing externalities in the decision making processes writ large? How could we address turning theory of trade offs into synergistic satisfiers being able to think through those deep things which is where if someone doesn't have enough of the metacrisis context there, it's worth getting it. And that's why the thing Stephen Reed started to put together where he took all those podcasts and made it to where you can just go straight to the point in the video where the things are talked about because long video is hard to search. That's a really cool tool right now until we have better resources.
00:41:29.730 - 00:42:24.570, Speaker C: But to start to think through, what are the solutions there? And then again, Red Team, your own solutions in the space. But you'll start to find, like, in the externality part, you might be like, God damn. Some of the things we're working on are actually terrible. Now that we think through it better and should really not happen the way they are, that would be great. And then simultaneously, there's actually a couple of areas where we could develop things that are profoundly awesome and we should really focus the entire community's efforts on this and really work to get groups, focus on capital investment, focus there, et cetera. Last two things I'll say in this section is so that's what I'd love to see people working on and insofar as contribution really starts to happen there then I look forward to learn about it and comment on it. You're mentioning that there's not kind of paid work, it's more contribution that people are interested in.
00:42:24.570 - 00:43:10.474, Speaker C: I do think being able to have a small number of people who are full time focused on that research and being able to find the research that has already been done and some of the good work that's been done in various places. Obviously Vitalik and Charles and lots of groups have worked on some of these things and tried to synthesize it and taxonomize it would speed it up a lot. And who can even host the convening? And so I think if anyone listening to this likes the general direction and wants to donate small amounts to a couple people being able to do that that Kevin could help manage, that would be a thing I would be really stoked on. So I'll say yeah, amazing.
00:43:10.592 - 00:43:34.980, Speaker A: Well listeners can't hear it but if you're watching the video you may see it. I'm furiously typing and taking notes and there will be a post on Metacrisis dow with the five prompts that you just gave us right there. Daniel, so curious to see what the Web Three community brings back but the fact that you've already discovered people like Stephen Reed I think is hopefully a sign that there's something here.
00:43:35.450 - 00:44:35.622, Speaker C: Amazing. And I mentioned a few names of people that I think would be really valuable to get on. There's obviously a lot more people I think having Audrey Tang on and a deep discussion of what web three tech and other tech. What is the whole suite of both tech and social and government activities that would need to happen to advance better digital governance system in relationship to state governments and where could people actually really start to make progress with that? That'd be amazing, right? I think that'd be super valuable and also wanted to say there's somebody that works with me named Chris Eddie who I know is engaging in the calls that you guys are doing to make sure that some of the metacrisis analytics are available when people are talking about them. So I'm happy about that and yeah, I look forward to see what comes amazing.
00:44:35.756 - 00:45:13.154, Speaker A: Well, Daniel, I think that this is not the third episode that we were planning to make when we started this series, but I'm very happy to be continuing to build a channel between the Web Three community and your work and I'm just so thankful to you for continuing to spend time here. I think that a lot of the world we're recording this at the end of January and 2023. A lot of the world has moved on from Web Three into AI and the fact that you still see promise here. I just appreciate your conviction that the Web Three community is going to be able to contribute here and I think that we will. Thanks for taking the time and I hope that we prove you right.
00:45:13.352 - 00:46:06.660, Speaker C: Should get some of the folks from Radical Exchange on whether Glenn or Matt because the relationship between what AI does and what Web Three can do that is critical in relationship with it is something that they are working on. Have a lot of academics contributing to that I think would be really valuable. Yeah, obviously where all the attention is has a lot to do with the economic opportunities and there was bullshit economic opportunities in some way associated with crypto and I think there's AI is there, but the problem space that was interesting is still there. The same kind of problem space and the opportunity space. So everybody who is still actively focused on it hopefully is because they're actually independent of a bubble, really interested in what can be built that is meaningful there.
00:46:08.650 - 00:46:35.374, Speaker A: Well, I hope that by the time the next market cycle and the attention that comes back on crypto associated with that arrives, that we'll have something more interesting to play with than just toy NFTs. And that Web Three can actually have some meaningful examples of things that fund the commons and public goods and address the meta crisis. So that is the hope and that is what I'll maybe end the episode on as an aspiration anything that didn't ask that you want to say?
00:46:35.412 - 00:46:59.382, Speaker C: Daniel no. I really love what you have done with getting all the people that are interested in the actual interesting applications in an entire space to be collaborative together and that's why I'm here talking with you and I'm stoked to see what comes next. So thank you, man.
00:46:59.516 - 00:47:33.860, Speaker A: Yeah, well, it's all about you know, you mentioned Audrey Tang and she has this quote about how her role is not to be a minister for a certain group, but to be a channel for greater combinations of strength and intelligence to come together. So I think that that's an aspiration that we have with the Green Pill podcast. Hopefully, Metacristisdao will become that. If you're listening, then open up Metacristisdao.com on your phone or on your device and sign up and let's get this party started. And then hopefully in six more months, we'll have something to talk about when we do episode four together.
00:47:34.550 - 00:47:35.300, Speaker C: Awesome.
00:47:35.830 - 00:47:36.670, Speaker A: Thanks again, Daniel.
