00:00:00.170 - 00:00:22.910, Speaker A: The idea that we're going to today, in 2022, create an immutable system that will work forever with no changes is ridiculous, right? Every system that's ever been made has been changed a lot. Ethereum's a lot different than it was when it started. Bitcoin's a lot different than it was when it started. There's nothing that will work without change and be adopted and used long term without change. However, you can get it so that the procedures for change are less subject to abuse.
00:00:24.610 - 00:00:50.774, Speaker B: You welcome to Layer Zero. Layer Zero is a podcast of unscripted conversations with the people that make up the Ethereum community. Crypto is built by code, but is composed by people. And each individual member of the crypto community has their own story to tell. Cypherpunks understood that the code they write impacts the people that use it. And layer Zero focuses on the people behind the code, because Ethereum is people all the way down, and it always has been. Today on Layer Zero, I'm talking with Kirk Hutchison of Volt.
00:00:50.774 - 00:01:32.714, Speaker B: And Volt is a inflation hedge. Stablecoin. It's a stablecoin that is hopefully designed to restore and retain its value as inflation goes up and up and up, which is a very timely conversation. However, we don't actually start the conversation there. Kirk has been recommended to me by many, many different people from across the defi ecosystem with universal consensus about this gigabrain nature of this guy Kirk. And so, in order to meet this guy Kirk and get to know why everyone respects him, I just decided to pull him straight onto a podcast. And so we dive down the rabbit hole of some very primitive defi concepts that we haven't really revisited in bankless for a very long time.
00:01:32.714 - 00:02:34.990, Speaker B: This concept of no magic numbers. When we design our DeFi protocols, anything arbitrary in a DeFi protocol is fragile, and if it's fragile, it's going to break. And so we talk about that concept. He also is very, very attuned to the world of monetary policy and economics and trying to apply the lessons of tradfi and economic history into the lessons of deFi. So rather than this being like a more typical layer zero episode, where I'm actually trying to go into the soul and personality of our guests, this is me just trying to figure out how Kirk thinks and what he's trying to do and what he prioritize, and I find a ton of alignment with what he is building, how he's building it, and what he's modeling it after. And so I hope you guys follow me down this rabbit hole of understanding Kirk and also understanding Volt and seeing where all of this goes when the ecosystem that Kirk envisions for the DFI ecosystem comes to fruition. So let's go ahead and get right into the show right after we get to some of these fantastic sponsors that make the show possible.
00:02:35.060 - 00:02:45.402, Speaker C: Arbitrum is an Ethereum L2 scaling solution that's going to completely change how we use DFI and NFTs. Over 300 projects have already deployed to arbitrum, and the DFI and NFT ecosystems are growing rapidly.
00:02:45.466 - 00:02:47.022, Speaker B: Some of the coolest and newest NFT.
00:02:47.086 - 00:03:31.840, Speaker C: Collections have chosen arbitrum as their home. All the while, DeFi protocols continue to see increased usage and liquidity. Using arbitrum has never been easier, especially with the ability to deposit directly into arbitrum through all the exchanges, including Binance, FTX, Huobi and crypto.com. Once inside, you'll notice arbitrum increases Ethereum speed by orders of magnitude for a fraction of the cost of the average gas fee. If you're a developer who wants low gas fees and instant transactions for your users, visit Arbitrum IO slash developer to start building your dap on Arbitrum if you're a dgen, many of your favorite dapps on Ethereum are already on Arbitrum, with many moving over every day. Go to bridge Arbitrum IO now to start bridging over your ETH and other tokens in order to experience DFI NFts in the way it was always meant to be. Fast, cheap, secure and friction free.
00:03:31.840 - 00:04:11.686, Speaker C: Rocket pool is your friendly, decentralized ethereum staking protocol. You can stake your eth with rocket pool and get our eth in return, allowing you to stake your ETH and use it in DFI at the same time. You can get 4% on your Eth by staking it with rocket pool, but you can get even more by running a node. Rocket pool is the only staking provider that allows anyone to permissionlessly join their network of validating nodes. Running a rocket pool node is easier to set up than running a solo node, and you only need 16 e to get started. Why would you do this? You get an extra 15% staking commission on the pooled ETH, so your API is boosted. So if you're bullish east staking, you can increase your API and get some extra tokens by adding your node to the decentralized rocket pool network, which currently has over 1000 independent validators.
00:04:11.686 - 00:04:18.446, Speaker C: It's yield farming, but with Ethereum nodes you can get started@rocketpool.net and also join the rocket pool community in their discord. You can find me hanging out there.
00:04:18.468 - 00:04:20.318, Speaker B: Sometimes in the chat, so I'll see you there.
00:04:20.484 - 00:04:52.278, Speaker C: The L2 era is upon us. Ethereum's L2 ecosystem is growing every day, and we need bridges to be fast and efficient in order to live a L2 life. Across is the fastest, cheapest and most secure crosschain bridge with across. You don't have to worry about the long wait times or high fees to get your assets to the chain of your choice. Assets are bridged and available for use almost instantaneously. Across bridges are powered by UMA's optimistic oracle. To securely transfer tokens from L2 back to Ethereum, a token proposal is being deliberated as we speak in the across forum, where community members will decide on the token distribution.
00:04:52.278 - 00:05:07.434, Speaker C: You can have your part of across the story by joining the discord and becoming a co founder and helping to design the fair fair launch of across. If you want to bridge your assets quickly and securely, go to across to bridge your assets between Ethereum, optimism, arbitram.
00:05:07.482 - 00:05:29.030, Speaker B: Or Boba networks bankless nation I'm here with Kirk Hutchison, the co founder of Volt Protocol, and Kirk has been universally recommended me from by a number of people who I know and trust in the crypto space. The Word gigabrain has been used a number of times to describe Kirk. I don't know where this conversation is going to go, but I have a feeling it's going to be a good one. Kirk, welcome to the show.
00:05:29.180 - 00:05:53.306, Speaker A: Thank you so much, David. I'm really excited to be here and flattered by the kind words that people have said of me. I definitely am kind of a theory cell as far as crypto stuff. I come from a very mechanism nerd like, look into the history, look into all the nitty gritty of it, and I feel very grateful for the opportunity to build and practice that now. But yeah, that's how I'd introduce myself. Fantastic.
00:05:53.338 - 00:06:11.890, Speaker B: Yeah, crypto definitely offers a blank slate for thinkers to begin to tinker. So I like that line. Thinker is going to tinker. So as a thinker, Kirk, what do you think about? What are the subject matters that you often ideate in your imagination?
00:06:13.110 - 00:07:26.934, Speaker A: Well, the thing that got me into crypto in the first place was, like many people in general, the idea of censorship, resistance, not just money, things like social networks as well. And I took a brief sojourn trying to be a solidity dev. I was never a particularly good one, although I gained useful insights by trying to learn that, I became fixated after a while on the problem of scalability in governance, and how, if you look at token governance models today, such as Makerdao, how they decide to tune parameters in the system or add new collaterals, there's quite a bottleneck of attention. The attention of the whole Dao at one time is not very scalable. And so I was thinking a lot about that problem, especially in the context of stablecoins. And that's what drew me to fuse and Rari capital and the tribe Dao ultimately was looking at more permissionless lending markets and thinking, how could you govern deployment of pcv or lending capacity in one of those markets in a more scalable, market based approach? And that was what was my original idea that was behind vault. There's been quite a journey since then, and a lot of other elements.
00:07:26.934 - 00:08:27.422, Speaker A: And the scope of the problem for me has expanded into the question of really, how can you correctly make a decentral bank, the fully symmetrical currency and credit markets and everything, all the types of things that people need banks for, in a totally transparent on chain way that is governed ideally by markets and not by votes, because the votes are where it gets sticky. And anything that is like asynchronous decision making, not very ideal for a continuously running open system. That's why ethereum or blockchains are so good, is that they don't go down or they're not supposed to. Right? There's always there and it can't be disrupted. So having some of the principles about what makes l one so good and thinking about can we take that into these applications and make further strides in the design is really what I'm obsessed with and how we could. Yeah, I'm inspired a lot by what exists. I also am inspired a lot by tradfi and learning about everything, how that works.
00:08:27.422 - 00:08:36.190, Speaker A: And I think that there's a lot to learn as far as building those functions, but not necessarily in the same package on chain.
00:08:36.850 - 00:09:22.110, Speaker B: Yeah, I have a feeling this is going to be a pretty brainy and technical show. So I definitely, as we go along, want to take some time to define some stuff to make sure that all the listeners are keeping up with us. You used a term which I have not heard in a very long time, a decentral bank. That term, a decentral bank, is something I think I might have memed this thing in 2018 when I was first getting into the world of content production and using it to describe maker Dow. It was like I understood Maker Dow at the time to be like a version of a central bank, as in it controlled interest rates, it had a monetary policy, it had assets and liabilities, but it was decentralized. And so how do you talk about these things? Well, let's call it a decentral bank meme. Never really caught on.
00:09:22.110 - 00:10:09.840, Speaker B: But I think as we extrapolate from 2018 to where we are now, I think what you're leaning into is like there is a more, rather than maker Dow being the decentral bank, there is the concept of a decentral bank. And maker Dow is now just like one flavor of that or one implementation of that. I'm getting the idea that volt is an alternative flavor of a decentral bank. But before we go into volt, can you talk about the concept of a decentral bank? You use some other words that I'd like you to define, as well as in a fully symmetric currency. That one left a question mark in my head, as well as asynchronous votes. So can we talk about the model of a decentral bank for a model, and then talk about those two dynamics of components of decentral bank, symmetric currencies and asynchronous votes. Can you talk about those things?
00:10:10.290 - 00:11:08.242, Speaker A: That sounds great. I think maybe we should start by just asking about, in a modern context, what is money? And since pretty much at least the industrial revolution, money means either a currency issued by a central bank, or maybe a deposit at a bank that issues its own independent notes. And usually this represents some kind of like a hard money value, which could be gold, it could be central bank notes. And there's an understanding that the bank is taking part of that capital and loaning it out, and they have some portion of basically hard money reserves, and then they have a loan book. So not everything is fully liquid, and they have to manage the liquidity within the system to ensure the price is stable. This is what central banks do too, with bond markets and all that, but it existed with private banks too. And we could get into what is a bank in the gold standard, which is a little different.
00:11:08.242 - 00:11:46.400, Speaker A: We won't worry about that for right now. But the idea that users need convenient media of exchange, exchange media. So like, you don't want to hold gold bars, right? You want dollar bills, or now you don't want that. You just want a credit card or a debit card. And so users need to deposit their value with some kind of an institution that provides those convenient exchange media. And there's other functions that the bank does as well, which is that different people have different time preferences with their money. You might have money that you need to spend tomorrow, but then you have money you don't need for five years or whatever, and you're willing to have different levels of liquidity on those funds in exchange for getting some return.
00:11:46.400 - 00:12:29.900, Speaker A: And likewise, there's people who need to borrow money. And so those are all the things that a bank does. Along with that, banks also do deals with other banks where they buy and sell these types of debts. And that latter function is what the Federal Reserve and central banks have kind of taken over. Like they control and regulate how the banks can relate with other banks and other various rules. But even before central banks existed, it's natural for banks to have things like, oh, if lots of people come to redeem from them and they run out of liquid reserves, that they would borrow from another bank to get what they need and have those kind of deals in place. And these types of ideas are being brought up in DeFi by others as well.
00:12:29.900 - 00:13:44.770, Speaker A: Like Seb ventures from Makerdao is someone I respect a lot, and he posted a blog post describing like a clearings dao where stablecoin issuers could draw credit from each other using their own stablecoin as collateral when they had liquidity needs, for example. And I think that these type of structures can be very informative for DFI. So when I think about a decentral bank, I say to me, what is the problem with money on chain today? If we look at l one tokens like Ethan bitcoin, the problem is that they're too volatile to be short term money, and I don't think that's ever going to change. They could be thought of as the equivalent of the highest quality equities in the future, or there's other entirely new ways of thinking about valuation, but they're not exactly the same thing as cash. Now, stablecoins, at the end of the day, all stablecoins basically either depend upon a not necessarily sustainable incentives model, or on centralized stablecoins in order to maintain a stable backing. And there's nothing that's like a conclusive exception to that that's shown to be highly scalable so far. And we can see clearly the disadvantages of depending on like, I'm not someone who's like a PSM hater necessarily.
00:13:44.770 - 00:13:54.658, Speaker A: It's good that Dai has the PSM, but it's not good to stay that way forever. And they're working on know like Makerdao is all over trying to diversify out of USDC risk.
00:13:54.754 - 00:13:57.030, Speaker B: But can you define a PSM?
00:13:57.790 - 00:14:57.626, Speaker A: PSM is a peg stability module. And for a simple thought about decentralized stablecoins, you could either be doing over collateralized lending, where they're minted against an over collateralized position of ETH or other assets, or you could mint it directly against another stablecoin in a PSM, which is a pEG stability module. And not everyone would call it a PSM, but it's the same thing. Like how the portion of frac supply, which is backed by USDC is analogous to a PSM type of operation. And then let's see. So when I think about a decentral bank, I think that all of these things that banks do, like accepting deposits and loan origination, you can't leap all the way there in one step, these decentralized systems to have the equivalent of tradfi instantly. But if we start to learn from these, I think it's possible to build a more resilient and decentralized stablecoin systems, especially if you can cut out centralized middlemen in the right way.
00:14:57.626 - 00:16:12.606, Speaker A: With USDC circle controls, everything we can see other things like how Lido manages the validators, or how Makerdao is looking at then doing direct deals with different entities like bond offerings. Those things all can help mitigate counterparty risk. But having a really like to me, it's still done on a case by case basis. You know what I mean? There's no clear, transparent framework for how Makerdao will scalably decide what kind of real world lending it will do without just relying on an inside group of experts. And so figuring out decentralized and market based approaches for these things is one of my big goals. And when I said a fully symmetric stable coin, I guess what I meant is one that has a match between both being able to matchmake between those who wish to deposit their capital in the stablecoin system and receive stable value and some yield, and those who would allocate that capital and the lending opportunities that exist in a way that is fully market based and the rates are derived from the market. Similar how AVA and compound have utilization based rates, but connecting that into a wider variety of activities, potentially even including real world assets.
00:16:12.606 - 00:17:35.514, Speaker A: Because I say decentralization mostly rather than decentralization maxi, because I do think that getting that last mile into the real world is very important. And we can't just, if the best decentralized systems, because they're too purist minded, drop the ball on the last mile and then just let the scams and such go direct to the people, that is not a good out ending and when I look at how big Terra and ust got, and then look at how little attention is given to even the more promising, radically decentralized experiments like Rye, I just think that for volt at least, it's one of my goals to really be proactive in that regard at least, and we can learn from. Yeah, I like what Seb at Makerdow thinks about. There are ways to analyze, to get close to the purity of a smart contract through the legal system. Not 100%, but we shouldn't be close minded to the idea that there can be other consensus layers besides one blockchain. Right. And a settlement layers, and being in general, the perspective of looking as holistically as possible at how blockchain can fit into the world economy, and taking a long term view over 510 years, and how lending markets and capital markets can evolve, that's all the type and historical perspective of how they've changed.
00:17:35.514 - 00:18:17.018, Speaker A: Otherwise, there's been many big changes in the world capital and financial markets in tradfi in the last 30 years, 40 years. And so understanding how digitization has affected them and then looking at the arc of how things will a. I might be rambling a little bit now, but I think that there's a lot of significance to going to the kitchen and stealing the chef's secrets for tradfi, taking the best out of it, but keeping those robust decentralization and censorship resistance features. But that's what's like threaded the camel through the eye of the needle, right? So it's not an easy task, but that's the problem space.
00:18:17.184 - 00:19:21.178, Speaker B: Okay, so yeah, there's a number of different rabbit holes that I think just opened up. And the first one, I think at the beginning you talked about all these different stablecoins that we have on Ethereum, Frac Stai, USDC tribe. And I think you kind of alluded to how there's not really ever going to be any one single perfect winner of the stablecoin systems. But the net results once we have what kind of feels like a commercial banking layer of private monies, where we have the Makerdao making Dai, we have the tribe commercial bank making tribe, we have the USDC commercial Bank and doing USDC, once we have all of this commercial banking. And what I mean by that, just to be super clear, is that in the tradfi world, we have the Federal Reserve, which is the bank zero of the whole entire thing. And then layered on top of that, you have the commercial banking layer, the Wells Fargo's, the JP Morgan's, the Goldman Sachs that have accounts at the Fed and they trade and market make between each other. But then ultimately everything settles down to the Fed.
00:19:21.178 - 00:20:01.500, Speaker B: And I think what you alluded to is that if we do want a fully decentral bank, it's not going to be Makerdao that wins, it's not going to be tribe that wins, it's not going to be USCC that wins, but rather it's going to be an emergent product out of the interrelationships between all of these things. And that's when we get the network of those things and these financialization networks between all these stablecoins that are mostly decentralized for the most part, with the exception of USDC, which is completely centralized, then at that point in time, we actually do get this emergent decentral bank that unlocks this bankless future that we're all looking for. Am I on track with this general thesis here?
00:20:01.950 - 00:20:42.070, Speaker A: That's absolutely right. It's sort of like, you know the movie the incredibles, right? It's like if everyone's special, no one is, right? Like if everyone's a bank, then no one is. That's the bankless future. The idea is democratizing access to the kind of powers that banks have. I expect there'll be many more bank like entities of varying degrees of centralization, from the spectrum of full decentralization, immutable smart contracts to just circle, but in a different legal jurisdiction and a different backing exposure. And I see there being a wide diversity and them having the more inter lux networked they are, the more resilient the system can be. And I'm really inspired.
00:20:42.070 - 00:21:16.390, Speaker A: I'll shill a little bit. My favorite living economist, George Selgan, who has written a lot about the scottish free banking era and some historical periods of robust banking networks that did not rely on a central bank. And there's interesting things to learn from there as far as how they manage liquidity, cris or currency, also from a DeFi perspective. But I think there's clear historical and theoretical evidence that a central bank actually generally contributes instability rather than stability to the system, and that a decentral network will be far superior.
00:21:16.810 - 00:23:00.034, Speaker B: Cool. I definitely want to go into that, but also I want to just double tap on the fully symmetric money system. I might be wrong on this, but the way that I'm trying to understand this is if we talk about terra Luna, for example, I'm guessing that that is a fully non symmetric money system, as in it is extremely lopsided, and it was so lopsided that it collapsed and the idea that I see you nodding your head, so I think I'm on the right track here, is that Nick Harder had this tweet about terra Luna that I really liked, where he said, the day that Terra sold off UST to purchase bitcoin, to have bitcoin on the balance sheet was the start of the collapse. Because it was a lopsided system, they took away liquidity out of UST to buy bitcoin in hopes, like, okay, we're going to have this bitcoin to defend the peg one day, not realizing that if you sell UST to buy bitcoin, you are causing the de pegging of the UST, you are taking weight away from one side of the market, and you're adding a bunch of selling where you are not creating enough buying. And so, if I'm understanding symmetric versus asymmetric monies, it's when there's the inequal buying and selling, it was like, kind of my general understanding for that. And so if we have money crises, it's because there is an imbalance in money. And so if you are telling me that the dollar, for example, or the way that currencies generally maintain their peg is being bisymmetrical, where there's sufficient market participants on both sides, you have both depositors and creditors, and these things are balanced enough, and the markets are efficient.
00:23:00.034 - 00:23:09.720, Speaker B: That makes a symmetric money, which is, for stablecoin purposes, going to hold its peg if it's symmetric, if it's efficiently, well balanced, am I on track?
00:23:11.770 - 00:23:41.650, Speaker A: You know, symmetric was off the cuff. There might be other way to describe it. Of course, Terra had many other problems. But in general, there's a general class of problems we could talk about, and it applies to every stable coin that exists today, is that there's no such thing as a stablecoin whose backing is 100%, instantly liquid for dollars. Right. And so what that means is that for every stablecoin, there's a condition under which it might trade. Not at peg.
00:23:41.650 - 00:24:08.326, Speaker A: And for some stablecoins, those conditions are extremely remote. For some of them, they are very likely. And the worst failures of peg will always occur when people don't know what's going to happen. And so in the case of. I'll bring in one of the examples from the scottish banking period. It was a common feature of many. So these banks would issue notes, right, in exchange for gold, gold deposits.
00:24:08.326 - 00:24:55.702, Speaker A: And the note would be principal redeemable for a certain amount of gold, although the bank was fractional reserve. And some of these notes came to carry what they call an option clause. And the note said that this bank is either redeemable in gold on demand, or from the moment you brought it in, payable in gold at a certain interest rate in this much time. And so by putting this clause on the bank notes, it gave people the confidence that at least if they couldn't get their money right away, the bank was solvent and they would get a certain interest rate. And that also meant that if the bank had a liquidity crisis, those notes converted into bonds and then had a higher value. Right. And so you can see a similar principle at work to an AVA or compound.
00:24:55.702 - 00:26:02.430, Speaker A: When lots of people want to withdraw their money, the interest rate goes up to incentivize people to close their loans or more deposits to be made. And so that's like a very responsive and symmetric system, and it facilitates matchmaking of those who want more yield and those who want liquidity. And so you can't necessarily guarantee that silver coins would always hold peg with a system like this, but it should make any discount more rational and limited. Right? Like in the case of dye, because people know it is over collateralized. Even in a case where more than half the dye supply had to unwind and they depleted the PSM, it's not going to go that much below peg before people then refill the PSM by arbing because they're confident, since it's over collateralized. And so the knowledge of the mechanism by which it would return to peg, or the mechanism, the amount of haircut you might take if you need instant liquidity demand, making that as clear as possible and predictable for the participants, makes the system more stable. So one of our things we're thinking about a lot is if you have a stablecoin that has a significant illiquid backing component.
00:26:02.430 - 00:26:05.342, Speaker A: Let me take a step back. Have you checked that interest protocol?
00:26:05.406 - 00:26:06.210, Speaker B: No, I have not.
00:26:06.280 - 00:27:03.650, Speaker A: It's the new kind of compound, or Ava style market with a native stablecoin that was released recently. GFX labs was behind it. And the idea of a stablecoin that is responsive on these kind of same yield curves makes a lot of sense as aven compound. But then the question is, if you're going to bring in, let's say, more PSM or real world type of assets, or do these kind of loans or bond stuff that makerdao is considering, how do you do the right feedback between that and the interest rate that you're giving out on the stablecoin? And how can you do a market mechanism also to decide how liquid the stablecoin's backing should even be like, if you ask me, should the stablecoin's backing be 99% liquid? Should it be 50% liquid? That's not something I want to arbitrarily decide. Right. That's something that a market should decide somehow. And you can look at the fracs, collateralization market process.
00:27:03.650 - 00:27:12.198, Speaker A: It's something kind of similar like that. In this case, it would be like not choosing how under collateralized it is, but maybe just how illiquid it is, that kind of idea.
00:27:12.364 - 00:27:36.262, Speaker B: Interesting. Okay, so just to go and define what makes a good, resilient stablecoin, all stablecoins that are going to be robust, resilient, antifragile, sustainable, have to have what you call symmetric marketplaces as in a balance. Right? That's part of the definition here, yes.
00:27:36.416 - 00:27:57.406, Speaker A: This idea of symmetry is really about liquidity. That's what I would emphasize, is that there needs to be a two sided liquidity marketplace, and not just like fixed rates. Anywhere where there's fixed rates or things that are not responsive, there's problems. That's why when Makerdao has to go in and manually tune the interest rates, right. That's less than ideal. The curves on aven compound are better. The anchor fixed rate was a problem.
00:27:57.406 - 00:28:02.280, Speaker A: And we have, in fact, realized that the idea of pegging vault to a fixed rate of the CPI is also a problem.
00:28:02.650 - 00:28:30.560, Speaker B: Right, yeah, we'll definitely get into that. Actually, no, let's go down that rabbit hole right now. Can you just illustrate why is fixed rate a problem? We see this right now in the japanese bond market, I believe, where I think there's something like a cap on the yield of the bond market. They have yield curve controls of like zero point 25%. So they're fixing their whole entire bond market. Can you explain why a central bank would do that and what problems arise as a result?
00:28:31.970 - 00:29:11.110, Speaker A: So central banks generally serve political ends. That's what I would emphasize. And that I don't always know why they do what they do, because it doesn't always necessarily look like the best idea, in this case of the bank of Japan. If we just at a basic level ask what is the effect of very low interest rates on the economy? Is that it makes borrowing cheaper. And the reason that they might want to make borrowing cheaper is because there's lots of what you might call zombie companies in Japan's economy that are heavily indebted and don't have strong growth prospects, such that if rates rose, they would collapse. And this is the case with the United States economy as well. But it's significantly worse there.
00:29:11.110 - 00:29:36.770, Speaker A: So if rates go up, it would lead to significant social disruption. And so that's what they don't want. But at the end of the day, it's like an incentivized system. It's being propped up by the central bank. They can't keep it that way forever. So oftentimes keeping it that way longer doesn't make things better when you ultimately need to change. And that was the case for Terra.
00:29:36.770 - 00:30:15.498, Speaker A: The fact that it's unbacked in the first place means it won't work. But even if it wasn't unbacked, and if it was, instead, just like, imagine we'll offer this 20% yield, and then we'll go and even just look at something like Celsius, right? If you're like, we'll go offer 8% yield, and then we'll go stake eth, and it's locked up for a year. It's like, well, what if they want to get out? And then if you don't have a clear marketplace to sell off your illiquid collateral in some way in order to, or give people, like, a defined haircut on exit and that they knew up front what it would be, you get panic and bank runs and chaos.
00:30:15.674 - 00:30:51.610, Speaker B: Right. Okay, so going back to the symmetry thing, is it the supply of the outstanding dollars for whatever this bank that we're going to talk about, whether it's Makerdao tribe, whatever, the supply of the outstanding dollars needs to be balanced by the available liquidity. And when those things are balanced, is that like the symmetry that we're looking for here? As in, if there's a billion dollars, there needs to be ten times more liquidity than a stablecoin that's only $100 million. And it's that liquidity that is like, if there's sufficient liquidity, then the peg will be sufficiently defended?
00:30:52.030 - 00:31:22.630, Speaker A: Yeah, to an extent. Although I would say I'm not sure what the right liquidity ratio is, but it certainly does scale with the size of the system. And then the other thing is that there needs to be a feedback mechanism. That's the most important thing, is that there has to be. This happens with. I'll give an example of how fracs works, where there is a feedback mechanism. Like, if I go and redeem some fracs, I get a certain amount of USDC and a certain amount of fxs.
00:31:22.630 - 00:32:11.880, Speaker A: And as I do that, the frac system adjusts slightly its preference in the direction of being more collateralized. So as redemptions occur, it will seek to become more collateralized in response. Now, overall, I'm a pro over collateralization individual, that's for sure. But nonetheless, we can learn good mechanisms from everywhere. And the fact that there's any system variable that is fixed and can never change, that means that there's probably a market condition in which that's wrong. And so that's kind of the insight that I've arrived at. And needing to change it by a vote is also probably wrong, because sometimes things happen fast, and it'll be much more smooth if it can be according to a curve or a market process.
00:32:12.490 - 00:32:45.186, Speaker B: Okay, yeah. This opens up something I've always been fascinated about in the crypto space. Amin Soleimani, one of my personal heroes in this space, I say that every single time I bring him up, gave out this line in 2017. I think it was a tweet or it was on a podcast or something. And he actually doesn't remember saying this. And so he said the line, no magic numbers. And while I was only very young in my career down crypto, I understood that line as soon as he said it.
00:32:45.186 - 00:33:32.986, Speaker B: Like, no magic numbers. And what he meant by that is, if a human just chooses a number, a parameter, and it's just arbitrarily chosen, that is the definition of something that is not antifragile. It is literal fragility, because it's a fixed number. If it's something that's fixed, it's fragile. And so if we are trying to make censorship resistant, human resistant, like, long term, sustainable financial systems, we can't just be picking arbitrary numbers. It has to be a dynamic system that can respond to the inputs and outputs that are around it, right? And so this is always where crypto starts to look a lot more like nature, more than it does finance. I mean, it definitely looks like finance, but it borrows properties from nature.
00:33:32.986 - 00:34:07.302, Speaker B: And so there are a number of systems out there, like you've already talked about, the dynamic interest rates of compound and Ave. As the utilization of these assets inside of compound and Ave go up, the interest rates go up. And what that means by that is, like, if Ave has 100 ETH deposited into his vaults, people have supplied 100 etH, and no one is borrowing anything. Well, then the interest rates on that ETH are basically zero, because we wouldn't need to incentivize people to borrow it. As that number goes up, it goes up slowly at first. Like, ten ETh gets borrowed, so interest rates go up a little bit. 20 ETH gets borrowed, so interest rates go up a little bit.
00:34:07.302 - 00:34:45.250, Speaker B: If we get up to 80 ETH borrowed out of the 100 ETH that's deposited, the interest rates that are being charged by the borrowers goes up a lot, because at some point, if you hit, like, 99 ETH that's borrowed, out of the total 100 EtH that's deposited, there's no more liquidity in the system. We got one ETH left. And so we have to dynamically increase this interest rate to naturally balance out this marketplace and incentivize more deposits or to incentivize people to repay their yield. A similar system, also Part of rye. Rye. The stablecoin, is like this governance. What is it called? Basically like, control theory.
00:34:45.250 - 00:34:59.370, Speaker B: It's like a natural. Governor Kirk, can you just talk about this dynamic of a self referential feedback mechanism and how it can take us from a fragile version of finance to an anti fragile version of finance?
00:34:59.870 - 00:35:29.894, Speaker A: Yeah, I think that. Let me think about for a second about the best way to put it in words. I like to give people very concrete examples. So let's think about this. You and I, we have two avocados between us. One of them is ripe today, and one will be ripe tomorrow, and we each have $1. So the question is, there's an avocado seller present.
00:35:29.894 - 00:36:25.922, Speaker A: How much is the one ripe avocado worth? And how much is the unripe avocado worth? It's a good question. How do we decide? Right, because I don't want to overbid on my avocado. Right. And so we get very quickly into the questions of, like, how does market pricing work? And at the end of the day, most likely, the avocado seller sets a price because he exchanges with many people, or who knows what happens? But any system needs some way to regulate otherwise, what if I get word before you that the avocado is there, and I run to the store and buy it, undercut you? And these kind of examples are, what happens when there's, like, a liquidation failure in a lending market? Something doesn't happen at the right speed, when it could have been sold for the right price, but it wasn't. And so even if you do have, there's always a chance that something could still be mispriced. Right. Even if you do have feedback loops.
00:36:25.922 - 00:37:09.342, Speaker A: But. Sorry, I'm jumbling my words. I think we need to step one, step back and just ask, like, what is a market? And if we understand that what a market is in general is like an information system, where there's the whole economy, and how does someone decide what something is worth to them. It's based on their own needs. And so based on their own needs, they'll pay the best price they can figure out for what they're going to get. I have my income, I have to decide what I'm going to spend it on. And those prices propagate into the economy and the market, and they inform the sellers and other things, and it all comes together to be expressed in the prices, which are an information signal.
00:37:09.342 - 00:37:49.662, Speaker A: And when you have like a, in order to have a market, you need the ability for the free exchange of this kind of information. And the easier it is for people to connect economically, the more efficient the market will be. So running on a blockchain that's 24/7 global, always online, where anyone can be a market maker or a liquidator, compared to these opaque tradfi systems, it's much smoother. And for lending and borrowing. That's why it's the difference between critique. This is a stablecoin that I kind of like. But there's one thing I don't like about it, which is LUSd.
00:37:49.662 - 00:39:18.958, Speaker A: The fact that it has a fixed fee on minting and no ongoing charge introduces instability into that system. And if the fact that it is instead a liquidation only model that's just based on, like, you have to top up your collateral, it means that incentives are applied in a more staccato way, like when the liquidation actually occurs, instead of a smoothly adjusting rate. And so you can see that traders in crypto will often like to look at where the liquidation walls are, right? A lot of people will have their position at that spot, and probably we can do a lot better with automatically regulating these things. People are already working on defi saver type of stuff that will automatically adjust your collateralization to be responsive to the market movements, right? So that's another type of feedback that's very beneficial for the users, where you don't want to just be like, or even, I'll draw an analogy to univ. Three, right? It's more of a market of opinions, because instead of just being stuck to like, oh, it's this price and this curve, only you can say, oh, well, I'll put whatever curve I want, right? And it's my opinion, and then I can change it in the future too with flash liquidity provision on different curves. Anything that allows more granular market choices and also brings people together into a smooth place where they can all exchange in the market together will make things less risky and better. And this is observed in tradfi too.
00:39:18.958 - 00:40:02.926, Speaker A: I was just reading a book. I got involved in a little Defi meets tradfi reading group. And the first book of the week was an introduction to repo markets, which I found very well written, and talks about some historical perspective of how. And just for the listeners, a repo market is one of the main types of low risk tradfi yields. And banks do it in all kinds of things. And it's basically like, let's say I'm a stock trader and I have some Home Depot stock and I want to leverage up on it. I do an over collateralized loan, basically just like compound or AvA with the bank, where I give them $100 of Home Depot stock, they give me a $50 loan at a half percent or 1% interest rate, and then I go do whatever I want with that.
00:40:02.926 - 00:40:41.270, Speaker A: I either short Home Depot to hedge or I lever up whatever my plans are. And this is a huge market that only really came into existence. I know the UK market was created in the 90s, that's not that long ago. And the motive of creating it and legally allowing it, because before it was like, only banks can do these types of deals. And then they made a market where like, oh no, any firm can do it because their goal was to reduce the volatility in the bond markets and allow people to hedge their positions in that. And it worked, and the bond markets grew after. So you can see that making a place where people can trust how the rules work and more people can participate grows the pie for everyone.
00:40:41.270 - 00:40:46.426, Speaker A: And so that's one of the things that's of course, really exciting about DeFi. When you think, look, in the long term, certainly.
00:40:46.528 - 00:41:25.640, Speaker B: Okay, so I think we've talked a lot about some just big ideas, right? Like resiliency through multiple decentral got. We've talked about control theory and how that keeps things balanced if the parameters are tuned in a dynamic fashion. I want to start to get into some more specific things about the current state of DeFi and the problems you see in the current state of Defi, and how we get it to that future that you just alluded to, where the pie is very big. What parts of DeFi are preventing the pie from getting a lot larger that are consuming your brain space? What are the problems that you are working on right now?
00:41:26.970 - 00:42:01.470, Speaker A: Well, one thing, the central thing that we're working on right now at vault directly at the moment is this liquidity management system, where people may be familiar with the dai savings rate. So there's a version where people can take their dai stablecoin and lock it to get yield. It used to be some yield on it. Now it's been one basis point for a long time. But who knows, with the bear market, maybe it will go back up. And the idea that a stablecoin could be natively yield bearing. We initially created vault as the idea of the inflation resistant stablecoin, and a hard target on that us consumer price index inflation peg.
00:42:01.470 - 00:42:43.650, Speaker A: But what we've realized, of course, is that in some market conditions, the risk that's needed to achieve a hard target may be unacceptable. It's a magic number, and we need to get rid of it. That doesn't mean that the goal of the system is still to preserve user value and create a marketplace where that's possible. But it's just that sometimes it's not up to me to decide that eight and a half percent interest is the right amount at the right risk level. And so creating a way that risk and interest can be priced by the users is what's key. So we're working on a way to build a compound or AvA style utilization curve into the stablecoin, and have concepts of the difference between liquid and illiquid reserves. The difference between holding dai or Faye versus, let's say, holding.
00:42:43.650 - 00:43:30.586, Speaker A: For a very simple example, think about what's the equivalent of USDC for die for vault. It would be like tokenized wrapped treasury inflation protected securities. Some kind of a tradfly inflation head instrument, right? Let's say there was some tokenized thing that we could get for that. So maybe that's earning 9%, whatever. So it's like 10% of the PCB is in that 90% is liquid, and a way for the market to choose how that breaks down, having all those kind of design features. So that's what's our most proximal thing. The other big classes of problems I see in DFI today are one, the lack of longer term debt and liquidity management.
00:43:30.586 - 00:44:15.546, Speaker A: Most dows or stablecoin issuers on chain, it's pretty difficult to get longer term borrows only against a very narrow range of collateral like eth, only, right? And even then, the markets aren't very liquid. So the ability for a stablecoin issuer like makerdao to access or give out longer term debt is highly beneficial. Real world banks construct a yield curve and have a management of the liquidity of the underlying. And so that seems like a powerful area that will have a ways to go. Still, there's not a huge amount of traction. There are some cool projects, but nothing that has had runaway product market fit yet. And then the other thing for me is really cracking the governance nut.
00:44:15.546 - 00:45:03.530, Speaker A: I think that token governance is a very thorny thing, especially when the more money is involved. And so really getting that right and checks and balances in the system is critical. So one of the things that we're working on for the next vault upgrade is governance rights to the stablecoin holders. And I was very excited to see the recent Lido proposal along similar lines of putting various checks into the powers of the lido token on staked eth. And we like that idea. Ultimately, in the vault system, the goal is that in some way the governance tokens would be able to onboard new yield strategies or venues, and then allocate pcv or choose in some kind of a market how that is directed. But we would like the vault holders to be able to veto or say no to bad decisions.
00:45:03.530 - 00:45:37.366, Speaker A: I don't think it's right to expect stablecoin holders to proactively go and decide should we do this or that, or weigh the merits of highly nuanced governance decisions. But they should at least be able to say like, no, we don't want this. Even in governance tokens like maker getting participation from the holders is tough. So it's not like we expect all stablecoin holders to be super engaged in governance, but giving them, especially the large holders and in a relatively small quorum, the right to veto negative changes is a great security check. So thinking about those patterns a lot.
00:45:37.468 - 00:46:18.806, Speaker C: Ave is the leading decentralized liquidity protocol. And now Ave V three is here. Ave V three has powerful new features to enable you to get the most out of DFI, including isolation mode, which allows for many more markets to be launched with more exotic collateral types. And also efficiency mode, which allows for higher loan to value ratios and of course, portals, allowing users to port their AAVE position across all of the networks that AAve operates on like Polygon, Phantom, avalanche, arbitrum, optimism and harmony. The beautiful thing about AAvE is that it's completely open source, decentralized, and governed by its community, enabling a truly bankless future for us all. To get your first cryptocolateralized loan, get started@ave.com. That's aave.com.
00:46:18.806 - 00:47:07.794, Speaker C: And also check out the Ave protocol governance forums to see what more than 100,000 Dow members are all raving about at governance ave.com, there is a brand new staking feature in the Ledger Live app. Today, we all like staking the assets that we're bullish on, and now you can stake seven different coins inside the Ledger live app, Cosmos, Polkadot Tron algorithm, Tezos Solana, and of course Ethereum. With Ledger Live, you can take money from your bank account, buy your most bullish crypto asset, and stake that asset to its network all inside the Ledger Live app through a partnership with Figment, Ledger also lets you choose which validator you want to stake your assets with. And Ledger is running its own validating nodes, offering a convenient way to participate in network validation, and it even comes with slashing insurance. Ledger Live is truly becoming the battle station for the bankless world. So go download ledger live.
00:47:07.794 - 00:47:44.218, Speaker C: If you have a ledger already, you probably already have it and get started securely staking your crypto assets the era of proof of stake is upon us, and lido is bringing proof of stake to everyone. Lido is a decentralized staking protocol that allows users to stake their proof of stake assets using Lido's distributed network of nodes. Don't choose between staking your assets or using them as collateral in defi. With lido, you can have both. Using Lido, you can stake any amount of your ETH to the Lido validating network and receive st ETH in return. ST Eth can be traded, used as collateral for lending and borrowing, or leveraged on your favorite defi protocols. All this without giving up your eth to centralized staking services or exchanges.
00:47:44.218 - 00:48:03.960, Speaker C: Lido now supports solana, Kusama and Polygon staking. Whatever your preferred proof of stake asset is, lido is here to take away the complexities of staking while enabling you to get liquidity on your stake. If you want to stake your eth, Sol or matic and get liquidity on your stake, go to lido fi to get started. That's li d o fi to get started.
00:48:04.810 - 00:48:51.418, Speaker B: Yeah. Another thing I learned from Amin Solmani is that if you remove the ability for one party to bully you around, he called this the rage quit mechanism out of moloch Dao, where if there was a proposal that was going through and it was accepted by moloch, the moloch Dao, they would go into implemented in seven days. And if you didn't like that and didn't agree with it, you could rage quit without before that proposal was implemented. And so you would remove the ability for anybody who was a whale, who was governing and controlling governance. If you just were able to quit, they couldn't bull you around. And this check on power, it always protects the minority, and it gives a minority a voice. And so I think that it's an interesting checks and balance.
00:48:51.418 - 00:49:33.006, Speaker B: Checks and balances is definitely the right word. But also, at the same time, isn't the goal of this whole bankless future is for having governance minimized things? Right. And so I think anytime that there's a vote, I'll take a leaf out of Elon Musk's book and say, he says that anytime there's a user input into something, that's an error. And I'll say the same thing for governance is anytime there's a vote, that's a bug that we need to remove. I don't know how far we can go down by doing that process over and over and over again. The bankless utopia is literally all the way to the point where there are no votes. And I guess that kind of sounds scary.
00:49:33.006 - 00:50:03.710, Speaker B: It's like no votes, we just are ruled by these algorithms. And kind of, I kind of want to go down that rabbit hole where we do agree that the idea is that anytime there's a vote, that's a failure, and we want to establish some market based equilibrium algorithm that removes the need to vote, and we have this future where everything on is Defi is completely automated, is that the actual utopia that we want, or does that actually lead us down in accidental dystopia?
00:50:05.010 - 00:50:45.462, Speaker A: So I very strongly agree with the dangers of mutable systems. However, I think it's a necessary risk. And so we have to thread the line where it's going to be very the idea that we're going to today, in 2022, create an immutable system that will work forever with no changes is ridiculous, right? Every system that's ever been made has been changed a lot. Ethereum is a lot different than it was when it started. Bitcoin is a lot different than it was when it started. There's nothing that will work without change and be adopted and used long term without change. However, you can get it so that the procedures for change are less subject to abuse.
00:50:45.462 - 00:51:55.834, Speaker A: Right? And so that's what you said with the rage quit, right? Things like uniswap will make new versions, but migration is voluntary. Right? So, like, opt in is a great pattern. There's some things for which that works better than others, and you have to think about ways that certain dynamic or lending systems can be safely moved over. And then, especially when there's a question of protocol controlled value, these questions can get a little interesting of how it will work, but I am pretty much in favor of the idea that the smart contracts themselves should be as minimal and as immutable as possible, and then it should be frequent changes and voluntary migrations, but also the tools to make that relatively easy and simple. So that's something that we're thinking about now as we're looking at some of the next iteration of the vault system. Vault is not immutable or fully decentralized today that's certainly the goal, but in the first, almost all DeFI projects today are controlled by multisigs, and even the ones that are controlled by token governance. A small number of whales in the core team have enormous influence.
00:51:55.834 - 00:52:48.610, Speaker A: There's a few that have really gone the extra mile and attained distributed and effective decentralization. And you can see this when the founder tries to push things around and they don't work. There's only a couple of instance like that compared to l one projects like Ethereum. There's a long way to go for pretty much all of DFI, but I've definitely been reflecting a lot, looking at the things that went too immutable too fast, in my opinion, and then let me take one step back once. People just need to be a little more careful. Launching tokens for things and launching a token for an immutable thing, and then having the team only have whatever few year vest is very questionable, in my opinion. It's just like at the end of the day, the incentives are not there for new versions to be made that use the same token.
00:52:48.610 - 00:53:40.254, Speaker A: So that's kind of a problem. But that's almost like separate from these core mechanism questions that I'm trying to problems to figure out. But I think that it's important to make sure that incentive alignment is there. And in the case of something like Makerdao, right, it's obvious that the incentive alignment would be there even if they were to build a successor to die, they've already built PSi. It seems crazy to think that there might be a third one right after Psi and die, but maybe there could be it, who knows? And if they did that and built a whole new entire system that was voluntary migration, they could do that. And they have the infrastructure needed to keep teams working and building on it, right? And that's like credibly neutral and trustworthy, and you can count on that. When it's like everything is built by some kind of a centralized labs entity, but they're still trying to pretend it's fully decentralized.
00:53:40.254 - 00:54:33.474, Speaker A: You have to wonder a little bit. Throwing a small amount of shade on uni. I think they're great builders, but sometimes it's like I just feel a little weird when I see Uniswap's labs ventures doing big investments when the uni token is like holders are kind of in the dark about what's going on. So transparency is big for me. And I think transparency should almost precede decentralization in that first of all, who are these people who are supposed to decide right when you give the tokens out? Ethereum is not decentralized in the sense that all the ETH holders have to decide how it works, right? That would be kind of ridiculous. However, they are able to opt in or out very readily, and the kind of like peers, those who can run the clients of the network, can all opt in or choose right? And it's the majority consensus of the people who really care and have skin in the game, effectively decides the fate of the network. And that's pretty good.
00:54:33.474 - 00:55:42.460, Speaker A: Robust decentralization, about as good as you can get. It's very hard, in my view, to get there with token voting system, and so these things need to be thought about very carefully and not rushed into is one of the things that I've been realizing lately is like, I think that over the next couple of years we'll see really great governance systems designed, but we can't expect expecting products to either be fully decentralized at the first MVP, or things to be immutable when they first are created will lead to dead ends. But at the same time, things should not be allowed to scale to excess before they have achieved those goals. And that's one reason that we've done a cap launch on Volt and will not be significantly allowing the supply to grow until the core issues are ironed out and it's more hardened as far as changes. But I do think there is a need for experimentation, and that's where these debates about regulation or what should be allowed. There is a great need for experimentation and just freedom and sandbox to do whatever you want. But I think there's also a room for industry standards of responsibility and things like I think a big lesson we can draw from this bull market is you probably shouldn't do like, uncapped public launches of a lot of types of experimental financial products.
00:55:42.460 - 00:56:32.474, Speaker A: It can lead to trouble. Now, probably shouldn't doesn't mean should be illegal, but it causes trouble. And so it's wise to think carefully about these are the types of lessons I've drawn. I think Makerdao again is like I keep pointing to them as like my golden favorite example of a stablecoin issuer and the place to look of Makerdao's culture is if a change is going to like, it needs to be so thoroughly justified and there's all these stakeholders who are going to weigh in. And that bias against me, I'll tell a little. When rocketry got started in California and the people who would eventually go on to found JPL were just sneaking outside of Caltech and firing up rockets in the canyons when no one lived around. That experimentation was good.
00:56:32.474 - 00:57:24.170, Speaker A: It was also good that now today in the aerospace field, there are such strict standards for software security, right? Like far more than for any DeFi project. I have a friend who worked at JPL and it's like they have entire separate teams working on the tests and the code, and the people who write the code haven't even touched the test. And at the end it all has to work perfectly, right? And it's like they have everything so specified and so many eyes on it. External firms where even almost the best in the business. It's like, oh, we had two audits by these two big name firms. It's like, well that sounds great, but when was the last time Ava or compound checked an audit on one of their collateral tokens? And what governance changes have been going on? Even at this moment, there's like a bunch of collateral tokens on Ava or compa where if a malicious change went through, they could just infinite mint or something and rug. There's so many buried risks.
00:57:24.170 - 00:58:04.280, Speaker A: And so that's why I respect makerdal a lot, being like, no, you like very few collaterals per asset, collateral caps, keeping them very small, getting rid of things. So those types of choices, and also just a completely open and transparent decision making process. That's what's so good about DeFi. You can see everything that happens on chain, and it's even better if the decisions are all out in the open. And so that's something. It's hard for small projects, because at the end there's only so many people who care or understand, and you have to just a small team who's figuring things out. But as things grow, making sure all of those rails are laid out and transparency is super huge.
00:58:04.280 - 00:59:06.986, Speaker A: I'm going on another little tangent here, but I'm very much an enthusiast and proponent, although we haven't implemented these things at vault yet, of decentralized front ends and informatics hosting like decentralized subgraphs or ipfs based distribution of sites, there's a lot that DeFi products can do to just the simple fact of making the site the front end, an immutable link. Front end security is such a can of worms too. There's so many things that need to be carefully minded. So after all of the heady days of the last year, I've definitely taken a long look at just how deep a rabbit hole true security really is and what it means to have a security culture, and that I really admire the Ethereum core devs and their process. And so DeFi needs to learn from these robust, decentralized existing orgs. I think makerdao and all core devs and the ethereum culture is really strong and that's what DeFi needs to not get lost in. And sometimes move fast and break things is good.
00:59:06.986 - 00:59:21.790, Speaker A: But sometimes the Ethereum instinct of no slow down and contemplate is a good one. Slow down contemplate and make sure it's really designed the right way for the long term and decide everything based on the best long term principles, not based on short term opportunism or incentives.
00:59:23.170 - 01:00:23.298, Speaker B: So I mean, I'm 100% in alignment with the other property about maker Dow that I definitely admire is that, and this became super obvious right after the terra collapse, is that the growth of maker Dow lags demand, or at least the growth of dai supply lags demand. Whereas UST was minted in a growth strategy. We'll mint all these tokens so that we can go do things like mint the tokens so people can have the tokens, mint the money, and then all of a sudden it fell over. Dai supply is the opposite of where it only grows if there's sustainable long term dai demand, pushing up the Dai price on the secondary market, creating an incentive to mint new Dai. And so this constraint on how fast this thing grows is what makes it and protects it and makes sure that it's always going to be stable. And so using these principles. Same thing with Ethereum block space too, right? Ethereum block space is so constrained, yet it actually has gone literally ten x in supply since 2015, when Ethereum first got started.
01:00:23.298 - 01:01:00.110, Speaker B: And so the Ethereum block space supply has grown ten x. But everyone feels like that Ethereum scaling is going so slow because if we juiced up the block space supply, it would turn into Salana and then it would crash. And so these ethos of constraining growth while we are in a hyper growing environment like constraining growth, is probably pretty okay, like, yo, we're going to be fine, we're still going to grow. So, Kirk, we touch on it a little bit, but I want to just formally go down the vault rabbit hole. Let's start from the very beginning. What is vault. And how have you applied all these principles that we've talked about so far in the podcast to building Volt?
01:01:00.690 - 01:01:53.374, Speaker A: Let me quickly run through three visions of vault, because there was a time when vault was actually going to be a fork of rye. That's because I really admire the controller model. And the idea was that vault was going to be a rye fork focused on long tail DFI asset lending. This is a very bull market idea. Back when you were getting like 20% to 50% rates and fees on long tail DFI tokens, and thinking that that would be a very effective way to do an inflation resistant stablecoin with a floating price, but targeting the inflation rate return. So offering a lower borrow rate than maybe people were already paying for those long tail assets, but more return to the users. We ended up moving away from that just because of kind of the complexity of the rye implementation, and it's really made to be immutable and just be know the kind of more scalable and modular thoughts that we were looking for wasn't there.
01:01:53.374 - 01:02:42.794, Speaker A: Although I admire the team and the design of it a lot. So we moved away from that to the Dai like model, right, with the PSM, and also thinking that lending would be this major component of it, directly issuing vault through fuse. And what I think is the bad part about this model is that, like you said, the magic numbers. And I had always intended to make it more market based in various ways. But as the market conditions have changed, I think we've come to understand that it's not necessarily destiny that on chain yields will always be super high. They won't necessarily always be more than tradfi yields. And while there are those higher yields out there, they require you to move significantly farther on the risk curve.
01:02:42.794 - 01:03:47.774, Speaker A: And so that's what's inspiring me to think about some significant changes versus the current vault v one. So vault v one is live today, and it is a very faye like stablecoin, because ultimately we did not issue any vault as direct debt issuance as part of the v one mvp. So it's just minted through a PSM and realizing that having like in the early stage of the projects, the team, it's not desirable for us to manually make yield decisions, especially risky yield decisions, right? That's the exact opposite of what a DeFi project should be doing. And the goal is to create what we have realized we need is a feedback mechanism where the vault holders can say when a vault holder says, I either want to hold more vault or I want to get out the system needs to take that information and accept that feedback and say, okay, vault holders are leaving the system, so we need to adjust the rates accordingly. Or, oh, we're minting more vault. And there's various things you could adjust. Like you can adjust the actual yield rate that the vault is earning.
01:03:47.774 - 01:04:36.046, Speaker A: You can also adjust a mint fee. So when there's very high demand to mint, you can do like equivalent of an auction, right? And you're essentially with this yield bearing type of stable coin. So there's thoughts to think about there. Like, when you are expanding the supply, how do you do it efficiently and as fairly as possible? Because it will be capped at first. And then at what point do you judge it safe to expand beyond the guarded launch? But I'll just kind of sketch through how I would envision the next step of vault working, which is that the system will have a concept of, let's say, first of all, let's say a stablecoin can have both liquid and illiquid backing. So for Dai, the liquid backing is USDC, the illiquid backing is the loans of DAi. So if you borrow Dai against ETH, makerdao cannot redeem that instantly.
01:04:36.046 - 01:05:11.658, Speaker A: Unless they do emergency shutdown. They have to wait for you to repay. They can jack up their rates, but maybe you don't care. And so, especially if you think that DAi is going to go further below peg or like something's happening, just being able to change the rates alone does not guarantee that those things will be redeemed. And so you can categorize it roughly as liquid and illiquid backing. And for vault, we're thinking the target liquid backing ratio should be determined by a market process. This is similar to how FrACs has a collateralization ratio, but Vault would still be over collateralized by PCV.
01:05:11.658 - 01:06:01.674, Speaker A: But how that was allocated would be based on this liquid or illiquid reserve. At first it would be 100% liquid, probably. And then just with depositing into other decentralized on chain yield venues, whether that's offer compound a certain menu of them and optimizing the liquid yield rate. And so that liquid yield rate would be like the minimum that the vault holders would earn. And then you can say a portion of the funds within the protocol could then be available to go into less liquid or riskier yield venues. So that could be as simple as like, let's say the protocol is 99% backed by, let's say the vault protocol has $100 of circulating vault, and then they have $99.07 of stablecoins.
01:06:01.674 - 01:06:53.710, Speaker A: And like five cents of eth, like just a tiny percent, you know, 1% volatile backing. Right? Or it could be that tokenized yield bearing instrument from off chain, or it could be an onchain loan, like a dow to Dow loan, a bond to a dow, let's say a 7% fixed rate loan to a dow that expires in six months. And the mechanisms by which that those could be added will also have to be designed. And I term that process market governance, is what I like to say for this whole theme and things where maybe we could talk a little bit about governance token design. I think it's very important that governance tokens have skin in the game along with their decision making. So you can look at like a lot of governance tokens today. We have kind of tragedy.
01:06:53.710 - 01:07:21.686, Speaker A: There's a few common classes of problems. I'd say one is tragedy of the comments. This is what we see with a curve and other ve style emissions tokens, where I take the best bribe I can get and I vote for that pool. And who cares if that is actually good for the underlying Dow or its revenues. I'm just profit maxing for myself and I capture a spread on how much I'm dumping on the other holders versus how much I'm getting bribed. So that has significant issues then with just token voting. It's like majority rules.
01:07:21.686 - 01:08:27.998, Speaker A: And if you feel like you're part of the minority, it's like why even bother? Especially if it's an unpopular decision and people will know what you're voting for. And you have some things that are really cool. Like for example, I like a lot like the AvA insurance module, where Ava tokens can put skin in the game voluntarily and opt into it to the staking module. And so you can envision things like what if they could stake, but like per collateral token, and then that set what the debt ceiling was for that collateral, and they put skin in the game for that collateral specifically. And so that pattern in general of more gradiated or smooth decision making, where you could stake to a certain opinion and consequences and rewards associated with that stance, I believe will have more effective results. So we have sort of the vision of like vault protocol is almost like an abstraction around a compound or Ava, where holders put in a stablecoin and they don't really care what underlying stablecoin it's backed by. It's kind of abstracted away.
01:08:27.998 - 01:09:24.814, Speaker A: And the governance token holders borrow those funds and deploy them into yield strategies and they can be liquidated, right, if they lose capital and there's some sort of a market based system. And then there's interplay. And that's why I talk about symmetry, where the demand from the governance token holders to go and deploy in certain yield strategies is they'll want to go and pursue the best risk adjusted return, whereas the vault holders will express their requirements as far as how much they need to be paid to keep their deposits in the system. They'll have this floating curve, and hopefully it can all come together symmetrically to offer the. Well, not hopefully, but rather through significant hard work and ongoing effort, we'll come together to get a fully symmetric stablecoin system that can support a wide variety of different types of yield activities, more than just what I would call on chain repo, over collateralized secured lending, but also have other types of yield instruments and things.
01:09:24.932 - 01:10:15.210, Speaker B: Yeah. The concept of a work token comes to mind, and this was a term I remember being thrown around in 2017 about many, many, I guess, ICO tokens. Yeah, ICo tokens. I think the Augers token was the first one I heard this classified as a work token, where a lot of people just buy these tokens, and if they buy the right ones, then it goes up in price, and then they're like, yay. But the concept of a work token is that you put it somewhere in the right box, and if you put it in the right box, then you get a reward if you put it in the right box. And you have to determine what the right box is. And so Auger, as a prediction market, there would be like an auger market spun up around the Super bowl, right? And team a would win the Super bowl, and team b would lose the Super bowl.
01:10:15.210 - 01:11:18.760, Speaker B: And then all the Auger people, all the auger token holders, would come and they would put their rep, their rep tokens, rep for reputation, and they would put it on the side of, like, team a won the Super bowl, and then they would collect a small fee from the gamblers who were gambling in that market, and the gambling would be denominated in, like, dai or eth or something. So there'd be a fee, and then that fee would be shared by all the rep holders that staked their rep on the outcome of a particular event. Now, there's many different marketplaces, and so rep was utilized, the rep token was utilized across all these different marketplaces. So it's not like every single person was voting on every single marketplace. But the idea is that you would go to the auger marketplace, and then you would just stake your rep tokens that you have in the markets that you know what the outcome was, and then you would get a small fee, and this was a way to get a decentralized oracle onto the system. Sadly, Auger never really took off, but it made the token holders go do work. And it was kind of like governance over the system.
01:11:18.760 - 01:12:10.726, Speaker B: Auger governance says that team a won the Super bowl, and then the token holders would go in and actually move their assets and the value of their assets into the right box, and they would be compensated as a proportion of the amount of capital that they put at stake there. And so if they put the thing, their tokens in the wrong box, they would get penalized, they would get slashed. And so if everyone is 99% of people said team a won, but you put it in team b, you lose your tokens. So there's risk there if you choose the wrong side. Now, maybe listeners are like, well, why would anyone choose team b? It's obvious that team a won. Well, then we start to get into the more gray area types of prediction markets, where the market is actually confused. And so there's perhaps something where the outcome of something is not totally certain.
01:12:10.726 - 01:12:56.418, Speaker B: And so we need to come to what does the wisdom of a crowd think? I can't really think of an example off the top of my head, but you could totally think of an outcome where it's kind of up for interpretation. If we're doing the sports metaphor, it's like, all right, everyone just looked at the film. Was that the football player's foot over the line or not? And everyone's looking at the film and everyone's debated, like, yeah, it is over the line. It's not over the line. It is over the line. And then row token holders are going to have to go and vote, was his foot on the line or not? And then maybe like 75% of people say, yes, it's on the line, 25% of people say no, it's not on the line. And then the 25% of people get slashed, and the 75% of people get the rewards, and then they also get the rewards of rep tokens that was slashed.
01:12:56.418 - 01:13:37.758, Speaker B: So you're rewarding all the people for being right. And the reason why I want to go down this rant is rewarding the people for getting it right, is this control theory mechanism that we've been talking about where the market has this input and it uses it to balance out the actual inputs of the system. And so if you're talking about the vault governance token staking, it's like, yes, I believe in this market, this is not going to get rugged. The yields here are good. I'm going to stake my capital here. And then the vault system naturally increases the debt ceiling, the ability to mint and deposit capital into this one particular vault. That sounds like a self regulating, marketplace regulating, low governance overhead.
01:13:37.758 - 01:13:42.322, Speaker B: Stablecoin yield bearing stablecoin marketplace. Am I on track here?
01:13:42.456 - 01:13:43.762, Speaker A: You're absolutely on track.
01:13:43.896 - 01:13:55.590, Speaker B: Okay, cool. But how on earth, maybe this is going down a different rabbit hole, but how on earth do you find, like, 8% yield right now to combat inflation on DFI?
01:13:56.570 - 01:14:59.462, Speaker A: And that is the realization we've ultimately come to, is that it is not my place to decide whether there is appropriate risk adjusted return at that yield. And as we do due diligence into defi yields today, in general, we conclude that they are mispriced. As far as risk. Most defi yields are not enough to justify the yield, is not enough to justify the risk that is actually present in the system. And even well regarded safe DeFi projects have a lot of governance risks or things that could potentially go wrong with them. And so there's a lot of care and concern that thought that needs to go into, like, composability is huge, but you have to be careful you're not just composing risks. And so that is the central reasoning behind our need to, I think, move to a floating rate system with the feedback is realizing that for me to say Volt will always have eight and a half percent yield is a dangerous, dangerous thing that could lead to the system blowing up and being destroyed under certain conditions.
01:14:59.462 - 01:16:08.370, Speaker A: And what we'd rather say is that in the early stage, the team will begin whitelisting certain yield venues on a basis of most secure, first, like, existing well regarded defi things, and in the meantime, be designing these mechanisms by which a decentralized process can onboard more yield venues. And we want to keep the scale of the system reasonably small, like it is now, while all these systems get ironed out. And then once they're well in place and have been working in production, we can scale it up more. And there'll be a parallel effort, I think, to look into real world assets, and also not just like, purely real world, but maybe like, what we could call, like, hybrid on chain, off chain things. You look at Maple Finance, right, as an interesting example, where it's kind of like, quote, uncollateralized loans to these market making firms, which should be scary to people in light of the recent three ac kind of stuff. But they've said, everything's fine, and I'm not trying to throw shade at them. But it definitely is a little spooky to not necessarily know what all of these books of these people are.
01:16:08.370 - 01:16:51.406, Speaker A: And so you can envision maybe a middle ground that's one step more decentralized. There's a special purpose legal vehicle that corresponds to a single borrowing pool, right. And that has very strict rules about what kind of things can be done with the funds. And so I'm interested in both learning about not saying that Volt will internalize in house all of these things, too. There's lots of projects going on, and I've been learning about the efforts of other real world asset, or also like on chain native lending or credit market kind of projects. And so I think it'll be very important over the next month or two. Here's what I should really put it.
01:16:51.406 - 01:17:49.380, Speaker A: I would really encourage listeners to just look at the fact that there's convergent evolution happening among a lot of stablecoin issuers today. And if you go look under the hood at what makerdao is planning and what Frax is planning, and when I look into my own head at what I'm planning, there's a lot of the same things going on of stablecoin issuers, realizing that there's only so much demand for liquidity in on chain repo markets just to leverage up against ETH. And you need to be able to do more nuanced type of lending activities, whether that's like a long term debt against ETH. I'm sure there's a lot of people who would like to have a one year long bond on their staked ETH collateral, right? That might be a different kind of a deal than I could get liquidated at any time. So there's room for more sophisticated lending markets. And so I'm excited to see what develops there that we can integrate with and also to what extent we need to build things ourselves. But we really did realize at vault that if you're a DeFi protocol and you're integrating with another protocol, their code is your code.
01:17:49.380 - 01:18:36.062, Speaker A: You need to have read every line, not just on your own, but like pair program security, reviewed with their team every single line of code, and you need to do that again every time they have a governance change of any kind. And so that's the truth, right? That's the type of diligence that ought to be done in systems that's handling tens or hundreds of millions of dollars of capital or more. And again, that's one reason that we're starting small. Any new project has limited capacity, and we have to be careful and quality over quantity for integration. So we've been doing a lot of deep dives into all of the existing projects, and I've had a lot of fun. I took Euler protocol for a spin for the first time yesterday. I had my nose to the grindstone for so long on vault, it's nice to look around and see what else has been built and exists today.
01:18:36.062 - 01:19:18.430, Speaker A: So these Euler protocol and interest protocol are the new on chain, what I would call repo style markets secured lending that interest me a lot. Of course, there's the classics of Ava and compound, and then there's the sort of Ava and compound style real world asset, things like Tin Lake, goldfinch, maple finance. So learning more about that whole landscape and where we can fit in. But I think that vault will both have its own internal mechanisms and integrate with other platforms. And Makerdao is the same way, right, where they're looking to build their own internal real world asset stuff. And they also have d three ms into AVA other markets. And so these kind of connections, I think, will become very robust, but they have to be taken their time with and built very carefully.
01:19:18.930 - 01:19:44.920, Speaker B: Well, Kirk, I definitely appreciate your perspective in emphasizing the conservative nature as we build out a brand new financial system for the whole entire world. Some conservatism and slow moving is perhaps the right vibe, especially as we are coming down off of a bull market where things only move very quickly. Kirk, if people want to just learn more about vault and just follow you and your other thoughts that you have, where should they go?
01:19:45.610 - 01:20:24.878, Speaker A: Yeah. So to learn more about Volt, you can visit us at vaultproteocol IO, and you'll also find links there to our discord. And you can find me on Twitter or on Discord and also on telegram, anywhere you like. As onetrue Kirk, you can also email me at Kirk at vaultproteocol IO. Yeah, always happy to chat about any defi concepts and just answer questions not limited to vault and also to learn from others. Because to me, the most limiting part of the whole pandemic period was just being cooped up in a little box. I got out to my first ever crypto conference for ETh Denver, and I think that getting outside of our crypto Twitter is a bubble.
01:20:24.878 - 01:20:44.794, Speaker A: And even within DFI, there's little bubbles, right? And so it's good to go outside that bubble. And so I'm working on that a little bit, trying to learn more about l two stuff. So Vault launched on Arbitrum recently and I'm working on understanding a little bit more about the security and decentralization, like uptime concerns with l two s and how that relates to lending. Lots of interesting stuff.
01:20:44.832 - 01:21:02.014, Speaker B: Well, Kirk, it sounds like you are becoming an expert in every single facet of crypto, so I'm glad that I got introduced to you this way by doing a podcast, and I'm going to keep an eye on what you're up to and where your brain goes. And I think we will reconvene on the podcast at a later date in time as well.
01:21:02.132 - 01:21:11.086, Speaker A: Thank you David. I really appreciate getting the chance to speak with you, and apologies for the connectivity issues on my to unfortunately, grandma House Internet has its limitations.
01:21:11.198 - 01:21:15.986, Speaker B: Well, I think we can edit all that out in post, so no worries. Kirk, thanks for coming on my man. I appreciate it.
01:21:16.008 - 01:21:16.402, Speaker A: Thank you.
01:21:16.456 - 01:22:02.798, Speaker C: Hey, we hope you enjoyed the video. If you did, head over to bankless hq right now to develop your crypto investing skills and learn how to free yourself from banks and gain your financial independence. We recommend joining our daily newsletter, podcast and community as a bankless premium subscriber to get the most out of your bankless experience. You'll get access to our market analysis, our alpha leaks and exclusive content, and even the bankless token for airdrops, raffles and unlocks. If you're interested in crypto, the bankless community is where you want to be. Click the link in the description to become a bankless premium subscriber today. Also, don't forget to subscribe to the channel for in depth interviews with industry leaders, ask me anythings and weekly roll ups where we summarize the week in crypto and other fantastic content.
01:22:02.798 - 01:22:07.090, Speaker C: Thanks everyone for watching and being on the journey as we build out the bankless nation.
