00:00:00.240 - 00:00:36.964, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 7 March 2022. Alright, everyone, let's get into it. So actually, before we get into it, just wanted to give a quick shout out here that I am going to be, as I say here, leaving my cave to attend and speak at Blockchain, Australia's blockchain week on Tuesday, the 22 March in Sydney, and Wednesday, the 23 March in Melbourne. Now you can hit this link that'll be in the description below to register for the event virtually. Unfortunately, all of the in person tickets are sold out at this stage and apparently it's very hard to get a ticket right now.
00:00:36.964 - 00:01:01.276, Speaker A: But I'm sure some of you have already gotten your tickets or I'll probably see some of you there. So very much looking forward to this. This will be my first conference since ETH Denver 2020, which is, you know, wild, but hope to see as many of you there as possible. I believe the event in Melbourne is at Marvel Stadium. I'm not sure where the Sydney one is. I should check on that since I have to attend, but Marvel stadiums, awesome. In Melbourne.
00:01:01.276 - 00:01:26.528, Speaker A: For those of you who haven't been there before, it's. It should be a really good, really good day and night. And there's, as I said, I'll be speaking as well about just anything, ethereum, really. I mean, I think I've been given an open mic only a couple of the days there, so very much looking forward to this. Looking forward to seeing as many of you there as possible. And of course, I'm still planning to head to Amsterdam next month. So if I don't see you at blockchain week in Australia, I'll definitely see you at Amsterdam.
00:01:26.528 - 00:01:51.104, Speaker A: I mean, if you're going there, right. But yeah, seriously, do register virtually for the event as well, just, just because there's going to be a lot of great talks and a lot of different people talking as well. And you'll get. Probably get a lot out of it and learn a lot from it, from it there too. All right, so the markets guys, they've been shit, right? Really, really shit. And I mean, I think we all know why. I mean, we've had just a string of bad news.
00:01:51.104 - 00:02:15.968, Speaker A: The crypto markets came off a really big high from, from last year and we need to come down. I mean, you know what? I'm surprised that ETH is still around $2,500 given the amount of bad news. There is. I mean, let's be real here for a second, guys. There's a war going on in the world right now. And not just, you know, any war. It's a kind of like a war in Europe that people, you know, are theorizing or kind of, like, uncertain about it spilling over into other parts of, of Europe other than just Ukraine.
00:02:15.968 - 00:02:35.778, Speaker A: So there's a lot of uncertainty out there. But I think, you know, crypto front ran this. I mean, we had the fed high, the fed rate hike uncertainty. We had the evergreen stuff. I mean, there's just been so much stuff. And also, as I said, like, just the general downtrend because we kind of came off such a stupid bull market. I mean, it's the, it's the dumbest crypto ever, got to be honest.
00:02:35.778 - 00:03:07.524, Speaker A: So I kind of, like, put out a few bear tweets today, guys, I want to reiterate these bear tweets that I put out, a pure shitposting. I'm never bearish on ETH, ever. Like, even in the depths of the bear market, last time at $80, I was not bearish on ETH. I was still buying around that price level. So don't take any of those tweets seriously. But one tweet in particular that I put out today where I said, you know, the current sentiment price action feels like June, July 2018. And then I, and then I shitposted by saying, probably not going to play out the same way, but don't be surprised to see another 80% drawdown on both.
00:03:07.524 - 00:03:26.606, Speaker A: Ethan, BTC. I mean, I personally don't expect that to happen. But the first part is kind of true. I remember distinctly kind of like, mid 2018. And if you go look at the chart, it was basically around the time where I think ETH was like six, $700, probably a little bit less than that. And we had come off, obviously, $1,400. We had already dumped a lot.
00:03:26.606 - 00:03:44.576, Speaker A: And then people were like, you know, this is it, $600. You know, it's fair. We're going to be fine. We're going to go back into a bull market soon. And of course, the exact opposite happened. ETH crashed really hard from there and continued down to $80 by the end of the year. Now, as I said, this isn't me saying that from here, we're going to crash down to, like, $1,000 or something like that.
00:03:44.576 - 00:04:17.640, Speaker A: I don't believe that's going to happen. I mean, it could happen, right? There's, like, anything can happen at this stage, but I don't believe that's going to happen. But the sentiment, the general kind of like, price action, just what I'm kind of like feeling, is very similar to back then. And as I said, yeah, yeah, it's. It's almost four years ago, but I do definitely remember what I felt back then because it was a scary time because, as I said, like, the price started falling really quickly after that, and no one knew where the bottom was there. I mean, no one ever knows where the bottom is. But, like, people were saying, oh, okay, okay, $300 is the bottom, right? And for the longest time, people thought $300 was the bottom.
00:04:17.640 - 00:04:48.744, Speaker A: I truly believed it was because $300 acted as some pretty kind of like, I guess. I guess stiff resistance or kind of like as a. ETH hung around $300 in 2017 for quite a while before continuing up to 1400 from there. But obviously that didn't work out. And then people like, okay, well, you know, dollar 200, that didn't work out. And then obviously we hit $80, which was a price that no one saw coming. Like, I didn't see anyone at the time thinking that ETH would go back to double digits, except Arthur Hayes, who famously penned the piece ETH a double digit shitcoin.
00:04:48.744 - 00:05:13.388, Speaker A: But I'm not sure if he actually believed that rather than him just trying to kind of, like, shit on ETH, because back then, he was a very hardcore bitcoin maximalist, and obviously he was running bitMex, which I guess benefited a lot from just people getting liquidated and people blowing themselves up. Right. Especially during its heyday. Um, but I guess, yeah, the sentiment is definitely in the. In the gutter, right. There's hardly any people around. You know, most people have left at this point.
00:05:13.388 - 00:05:47.022, Speaker A: Uh, I think, you know, the one sector that was doing well, nfts is also kind of, like, in a pretty brutal bear market now. And I think there's going to be a massive washout in nfts, guys. Like, as I've. As I've mentioned before, nfts are distinctly different to the, I guess, like normal kind of like fungible tokens, because with nfts, at least for the vast majority of them, you need to find a buyer. Right? Like, with, you know, fungible tokens, a lot of the time, there's just like a passive pool you can sell into on one of these amms, and there's a little. There's a little bit of liquidity there. You can't do that with nfts.
00:05:47.022 - 00:06:19.886, Speaker A: What you have to do is you have to put kind of like, your NFT up for sale on opensea or another marketplace and then a buyer has to come in and actually physically kind of like purchase it. So it's a very different dynamic. And the prices of nfts can fall much, much quicker because of that. And they can obviously rise much quicker because of that as well. But during kind of like NFT bear markets, these things go down 90% in like a week. They, they go down so, so quickly. Um, and, and especially because a lot of the NFT people, uh, first cyclers or new people to crypto, they have absolutely no idea how these markets work and how brutal they can be.
00:06:19.886 - 00:06:43.434, Speaker A: Uh, and then it's just like kind of like a race to the bottom from there. So I think I'm going to see a lot of pain play out there. There's already been a lot of pain in the fungible token market. I mean most things are down 80% to 90%, you know, some down 95 plus percent. There are people leaving projects, abandoning projects. I mean we saw yesterday Andre and Anton basically have left Defi. They've kind of like stopped working in crypto altogether.
00:06:43.434 - 00:07:26.190, Speaker A: So there's, there's kind of like that aspect to it. And just in general, like a lot of projects I guess, have, have been shown to have no clothes, right. Like I've mentioned to you guys before, bull markets give projects a false sense of security and the projects think oh, well, we have product market fit, but in reality it's just the bull market. Then when kind of like all that money flows out, you're left with essentially just like a small group of people and you really see which products and services actually provide value and which don't. And we're seeing a lot of these kind of like other l one s just the alt l one s just completely lose any sense of community that they had. Their usage is going down, you know, and to be fair, so is ethereum l one and the l two s. But I think obviously they have a much, much more long term future than the Alt L1s.
00:07:26.190 - 00:07:59.064, Speaker A: But, but yeah, that's kind of like I guess a lot of what's going on right now. I know a lot of you probably feeling kind of like down in the dumps about this, or maybe some of you are really positive about it and you're like, wow, yeah, I get to buy some, some cheaper ETH. That's a good outlook to have as well, don't get me wrong. But I did want to kind of like before I move on from, from this, did want to just spend a couple of minutes talking about the fact that just because the market is the way it is right now doesn't mean anything is kind of like fundamentally changed. For ethereum, this was true in the last bear market as well, and this is what kept me going. Right. So think of all the things we still have to look forward to.
00:07:59.064 - 00:08:15.904, Speaker A: Obviously, there's the merge. I don't have to repeat myself there. Then there is the layer to roll out, which is, you know, seriously just getting started again. Don't have to repeat myself there. There's all the stuff happening on, I guess, kind of like the app, the application layer. Still tons of stuff happening in Defi, guys. There's a lot of innovations happening there.
00:08:15.904 - 00:08:32.922, Speaker A: They're just very quiet right now. They're not in your face like thing. Like things like the Frog nation were, because, as I said, the in your face things are usually just the, the bull market. Look what happened to the frog nation. Look what happened to all those projects. Completely gone at this point, like completely down in the dumps. And that was, I mean, pretty obvious to me that was going to happen.
00:08:32.922 - 00:09:22.136, Speaker A: I had no doubt that was going to happen because I've seen it all before. Um, but, uh, you know, there's a lot of defi innovation still going on, a lot of really cool stuff happening in the Dow space. A lot of stuff still happening in the NFT space. If you look and just see and kind of like focus on the real builders, the ones actually building long term products and they don't really care about the short term stuff, that's where a lot of the value is being created right now. And as I said, you know, we've got the biggest upgrade in ethereum's history coming up, which is going to be funny if that goes through, you know, in June or July. And whenever it happens, it's still like it is today, it's going to be relatively quiet, which I actually think is, is a good thing. Like my actual, my actually worst fear about the merge was that what would happen is that the ETH price would run up to like 20k or something, or 30k because it was still a bull market, and then everyone would sell the merge and the ETH price would just dump really, really hard.
00:09:22.136 - 00:09:48.358, Speaker A: The best case scenario in my mind is that the ETH price does nothing or just continue sideways between, like kind of now and the merge, essentially. Right. And even post merge. And then over time, as the bull market comes back, it starts to go up. But, but it gives more people to kind of like, purchase Ethan to buy into ETH without the fear of it kind of like getting massively sold off. So I think all of that put together, very, very positive outlook for Ethereum going forward. I'm super bullish.
00:09:48.358 - 00:10:20.312, Speaker A: I'm super excited, may not hear it in my voice right now. I'm actually quite tired today, but I am definitely very, very bullish going forward. But I think that just generally focus on the builders, focus on all the positive stuff still coming out for a theory. Specifically, I don't know about the other ecosystems, maybe they have stuff going on. But as you guys know, I don't really pay much attention to those things and just be aware that the markets right now, it's kind of like a scary time to buy. And looking outside of the crypto ecosystem, the macro economic conditions are not great either. Like, I know there's a lot of talk about recessions and things like that.
00:10:20.312 - 00:10:55.644, Speaker A: And look, to be honest, I mean, things are getting way more expensive. Inflation's out of control, rates are already basically at zero. You know what? It's kind of like there is going to be pain somewhere, right? In the macro environment, there already is a lot of pain for people. There's going to probably be more pain to come. And it's going to be tricky to know how that affects crypto because as far as I can can tell, crypto has not existed during a crisis like this. I mean, the biggest crisis that crypto existed in was COVID, and that obviously was very, very good for crypto because of all the money printing and because everyone stayed home more people kind of like getting involved. And, and I think crypto was already ready to go bullish from there.
00:10:55.644 - 00:11:30.166, Speaker A: So it's just very, very hard to tell no one. And I don't think there's anyone in the world right now that could actually give you an accurate kind of like prediction of where the markets are going to go from here, both inside and outside of crypto. But at the end of the day, things do will get better over time. I think things will get more peaceful over time. But yeah, I'm not sure exactly how long it's going to take or anything like that, but I remain very as bullish on ethereum as I have been in, in the past, that's for sure. All right, we have a fresh all core devs call summary from Tim Bayko. So this happened last Friday, as they usually do.
00:11:30.166 - 00:12:03.840, Speaker A: So this one was packed full of merge and Shanghai update. So this is a rather long thread, as Tim Baiko usually puts these together. And, you know, while he's doing the call. So definitely I just wanted to kind of like point this out for you guys to go give this a read. As I've mentioned before, Shanghai is the first kind of like network upgrade going live after the merge. I think at this point in time it's probably going to be 2023, early 2023, but that's when withdrawals will be enabled for staked ETH. That's when, you know, some of these EIP, these popular eips like ERP 4488 is scheduled to go in and a bunch of other ones out there as well that are really going to help l two.
00:12:03.840 - 00:12:41.360, Speaker A: So definitely give this kind of recap to read for more context around this, but very, very exciting things happening on the core dev end of things. And I'm sure they're pretty happy that the market has quieted down as well because of the fact that quieter markets means it's easier to build, it's easier to kind of like get stuff done, it's easier to concentrate and yeah, I'm sure they're loving that. But I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out and you can also watch the stream if you want to as well. All right, so Gitcoin grants round 13 was officially announced with a company blog post here. So this is happening March 9 through the 24th. It's a couple of days from now. I'll remind you guys again, once this happens, they have $1.2
00:12:41.360 - 00:13:04.538, Speaker A: million in matching funds available in the main round and over $1.5 million in matching funds across nine ecosystem funds and three cause rounds. This is absolutely massive, guys. That's almost $3 million going towards public goods funding here. I'm super excited about this. Very, very excited to donate to my favorite projects again and get my donations matched. And this is shaping up to be the biggest bitcoin grants matching around, I guess, ever.
00:13:04.538 - 00:13:34.714, Speaker A: And it's only round 13. We know it's funny because like, I remember doing the first one of this and how small it was and seeing it grow over time has just been absolutely amazing and seeing the amount of money coming to it. I mean, these kind of like grants rounds were launched during bear markets, obviously during the bear market. So obviously it was, it was very quiet back then. There was a lot less money, but now there's a lot more money floating around. Even though the markets have come down, there's still a ton of money floating around. People made a lot of money and want to give back so very much looking forward to round 13 going live this Wednesday.
00:13:34.714 - 00:14:12.326, Speaker A: Alright, so DC builder has kind of like put together a public good blockchain development guide resource on GitHub here called devpill me now, I wanted to highlight this because it is quite extensive. And I mean, you can spend so long reading through everything that DC kind of builder has linked to here with whether you're a developer or otherwise, you can learn a lot about, you know, crypto development, learn a lot about different things like NFT, defi, how things work under the hood. I mean, look at this. I'm just scrolling through this right now for you guys. It is so extensive and there's links to everything that you need here. It's crazy. And there's more coming soon as well.
00:14:12.326 - 00:14:40.044, Speaker A: If you scroll down to the bottom, there's still a bunch more coming soon. And obviously being on GitHub, you can contribute to this if you like as well. Given it some, it's in the kind of like the, the public domain and it is a public good. So I guess congrats to DC builder and the other people that have worked on this thing, on getting this out. This is going to be, I think, a really, really great resource for people. And, you know, DC builder has just been killing it over the past, I guess like few months, putting together a bunch of different resources and things like that. They're also quite active in the Discord channel and on Twitter.
00:14:40.044 - 00:15:24.434, Speaker A: I love to see young people like this. I mean, you know, he says he's 20 in his bio here, but I love to see young people like this getting involved and really doing kind of like public goods things, right? Because at the end of the day, this sort of stuff is what adds the most value. I think because you think about it like, there's going to be tons of people who go to this, read through it, tons of builders that go to this. And can you imagine just like as an example here, there's a kind of like a new person who wants to build something in crypto, in defi. Imagine they come to this guide, read through it, read through everything there is here, and then go on to found the next billion dollar defi protocol or the next uniswap, the next maker, the next compound. Imagine that. Like, that's awesome because it basically means that DC builders guide here was instrumental in creating a billion dollar protocol.
00:15:24.434 - 00:15:56.242, Speaker A: And it's a public good, right? It's not like he's charging for, it's not like it's a university thing where you have to pay 30 grand a year just to go probably more than that. I don't know how much university is for you guys. I know in the US it's quite expensive, but you know, it's none of that. You can learn all of it by just even following this, following all the stuff that they've linked to. And I think, I think it's really, really awesome. I think that that really is the magic of industries like crypto and especially just information technology in general, is that you don't necessarily have to go to university or school for this sort of stuff. You don't have to kind of like spend all these years getting a master's degree or a PhD or anything like that.
00:15:56.242 - 00:16:35.708, Speaker A: You can do that if you want, there's nothing wrong with it. But if you just want to kind of, I guess like build something within crypto and you want to start from zero, you can start from guides like this and work your way up and kind of like build whatever you want because everything's kind of like out in the public and open source. So very, very cool thing from DC builder here. I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out. And speaking of resources, there is now a ZK pad which is basically a list of resources available for developers to develop on Stocknet and more generally on Cairo. You guys know that I've been talking about the stocknet ecosystem a lot lately. It's huge and it's growing really quickly and they actually know how to do marketing and business development quite well.
00:16:35.708 - 00:17:14.648, Speaker A: I'm seeing a lot of different people kind of, I guess talk about Stocknet, talk about how good their, I guess, awareness campaigns have been and how good they're kind of like developer documentation is and getting on boarded into it and how cool it is to develop on it. Because at the end of the day, as I said plenty of times, Stockinette is different to, I guess like another to the other l two s because it doesn't use solidity, it doesn't use the EVM. It uses Cairo and Starkware's own technology here. So developers definitely do like trying out different things. Obviously they like sticking to what they know as well. And that's all well and good. And as I've said before, I think EVM and things like Stocknet are going to go, are going to be basically be working side by side.
00:17:14.648 - 00:17:59.676, Speaker A: But if you're aspiring stocknet developer, this is kind of like another resource for you to check out on top of DC builders one as well. So I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out as well. So diagonal Finance has announced that they have raised a $2.5 million pre seed round to enable crypto native subscriptions on Ethereum. Now, disclosure here, I participated in this round as an angel investor because I think this sort of stuff is pretty amazing. I mean, I think that payments in general is an underrated use case of crypto and an underutilized one, even though that I think payments may be kind of like one of the last things that crypto does, because for better or worse, the existing payments infrastructure works from, for most people, right? Like Visa, Mastercard, PayPal. I mean, it works.
00:17:59.676 - 00:18:17.136, Speaker A: It's not ideal. It's still kind of like slow in the back end, it's still centralized. It's still at risk of kind of like, you know, you being censored. Obviously, they have to comply with things like sanctions, as we've seen play out and stuff like that. But, you know, a lot of that exists today. But the thing is, none of that is really programmable. None of it is decentralized.
00:18:17.136 - 00:18:56.044, Speaker A: None of it is really interesting, as opposed to things like super fluid, which is diagonal, is built upon, and then things like diagonal, which are just primitives to do things like subscriptions. Right? And I think subscriptions are a big deal, especially when we are, especially on L2s where the fees are basically negligible, where you can basically subscribe to all these things. And then the funny thing is, is that you can, and because it's composable, you can do really crazy stuff. Like imagine you subscribe to someone and then they've set it up so that they kind of like get your subscription and that automatically goes into like a yield farm to start earning them yield on it. And maybe they want to give some of that back to their subscribers as well. It's like kind of like a kickback. Be like, hey, thanks for subscribing to me.
00:18:56.044 - 00:19:25.458, Speaker A: Here's like, you know, 10% of the yield that I'm earning on the dollars altogether, and everyone kind of gets a sharing that. So not only do you get to kind of, I guess, subscribe to this person, but you also get to, you know, technically invest in them as well without an additional token. Right. Which I, which I find very, very cool. So yeah, I guess like congrats to diagonal on raising this. This should give them some, some Runway for a while to build out their primitive here. And I'm very, very excited to be, be on board as part of an angel as well as an angel as well.
00:19:25.458 - 00:20:06.916, Speaker A: But definitely go check out the blog post for more details on this and a full list of their investors here. All right, so Jasper the friendly ghost, a rocker pool maxi and a frequent person that is in the Discord channel, has put together this blog post and thread called, called one pool to rule them all, which is all about the, the kind of like our 8th pool on curve, I believe, here. And he kind of like goes into detail about what this is. So it's the re, sorry, it's the one that I mentioned last week, the Reth dash wste curve pool. And you know, he's comparing, comparing the numbers here. So if you compare just the curve pools, they are, ETH WST pairing offers 2.1% higher yield from 100% staking exposure.
00:20:06.916 - 00:20:42.156, Speaker A: This alone covers nine and 39% of the incentives added onto the lido pool. This is savings worth millions USD each month. So any goes into detail about how this all works here. So definitely go check out this blog post and his thread for more information on this. As I've said before, I think like these staking yield burgers are going to be quite tasty, especially in like a post merge world where fees are being collected and mev is being collected by ETH. Two stakers here, or I guess like Ethereum stakers, just in general. And then kind of like adding more incentives for providing liquidity to different pools, especially no impermanent loss pools.
00:20:42.156 - 00:21:21.490, Speaker A: There's obviously additional risk here. But you know, you got, you guys, you guys definitely get what I'm saying means your yield could potentially be up to 20 plus percent on staking your ethnic and maybe even in like the more bullish periods, it could go higher than that. I mean, at the end of the day, like, I think this, the sky's the limit here. Obviously, the more kind of like yield burgers, I guess the more ingredients you add to these yield burger, the more kind of, I guess risk happens here. And you know, if you put your kind of like ETH into a pool that's paired with Steth, which is part of Lido, which isn't decentralized, you kind of like lose out on those properties as well. So it's a bit more, be more centralized, but you do get the better yield. So you get the reward for the extra risk that you're taking, which is the way it should be.
00:21:21.490 - 00:21:55.840, Speaker A: You shouldn't be af, you shouldn't take more risk for equal or less reward because then there's literally no point taking that extra risk. Right. And I think a lot of people don't realize that is that you kind of like have to measure the risk that you're taking, and make sure that if you're taking, you know, even slightly more additional risk, you should be having slightly more additional reward. If you're taking a lot more risk, there should be obviously a lot more reward there, which is, I think, what this pool is trying to do as well. So definitely go give this blog post a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. So sequence is a service that lets you pay for transaction fees in a variety of tokens.
00:21:55.840 - 00:22:38.964, Speaker A: So you don't need ETH for mainnet or matic for polygon. You can pay for your fees with USDC, Dai, or whatever else you have. I think this is really cool and I think people get the wrong idea about services like this. They kind of think to themselves, well, if I can pay in stable coins on Ethereum, then what's the point of ETH? Why would I hold ETH? It's like, okay, guys, like let's take a step back here for a second. ETH is used for much more than paying gas fees, right? And you being able to pay stab paper fees in stable coins doesn't mean that it's not. Ethy is still not being used in the background because of the fact that the way the Ethereum gas fee market works is that the base fee still requires ETH to be paid and that is burned. So ETH is always paid and is always the settlement currency for four fees paid.
00:22:38.964 - 00:23:14.618, Speaker A: It's just that this sits on top as kind of like a, a layer to abstract that away from the users. But on top of that, yeah, I mean, it has much more use cases than just being used. As fees rise, defi collateral, it's staking its money, it's store value, it's all that good stuff, that money for nfts and stuff like that. So whenever people say, oh, it's pointless if you don't, if you can't pay fees in it, I say it's not like, it's literally not. We have objective, kind of like reasons for why it's not. And it was funny when people say that, but I think these services are basically going to be way people interact with this stuff. Mainstream adoption is not going to happen by requiring people to have ETH for every transaction in their wallet.
00:23:14.618 - 00:23:49.930, Speaker A: Like being able to abstract it away and eat, you still ultimately paid as a settlement currency is fine. Like even at L2, say you're at L2, you pay in stable coins. That is still how that still has to be paid and settled in ETH because ETH still needs to be paid to layer one to secure the L2. So it's still ETH all the way down. ETH is still being burned. ETH is still being used, but it's just abstracted away from, from the end user so that it just gives a better user experience, which is what actually what we should be striving for at the end of the day. Like the value accrual for ETH should happen in the background and should happen, you know, should happen like, don't get me wrong, we'd be doing something wrong if we're not accruing value to ETH, which is obviously securing the whole thing.
00:23:49.930 - 00:24:23.174, Speaker A: But I don't. And other kind of like tokens for, for kind of like layer one, side chains, L2s, all that sort of stuff. But it should definitely not be like, so in your face to the user that they're kind of like to use the tokens that they don't want to. So, yeah, cool little service here from, from sequence for sure. All right, so optimism has been on a hiring spree lately. And in this thread, they detail and they, I guess, go over all the new full time optimists that have joined their team. So if you're interested in who's working for optimism or I guess like who's joined recently, you can go check out this thread.
00:24:23.174 - 00:24:48.636, Speaker A: And they go through kind of like all the people, I mean, there's tons of people here and kind of like their background, where they've come from, what they're working on now. Very, very cool to see this. As I said before, guys like all these teams have so much money, they're still hiring. They're going to be able to weather the bear market easily, easily. Like they're going to last years and years and years, especially the L2 teams. So if you're looking for a job in crypto, you know, go look at the L2 teams. Go look at what positions they're hiring for.
00:24:48.636 - 00:25:33.080, Speaker A: But don't just look there, right? Look in the defi staff and the Daos and NFTs, like, and all these teams have enough money to last for ages. It's not like the 20, 1819 bear market where so many companies got flushed out, so many projects got flushed out, people lost their jobs. Remember consensus doing massive layoffs. It's not like that these these days, guys. There is billions upon billions upon billions of dollars floating around ready to pay you to work in this ecosystem and not just pay you a salary, but also give you equity or give you future token shares as well, which is where I guess like you want to be. You want to join an early stage startup that becomes a billion dollar protocol and you want to have a share in that because that is one of the best ways to make money in this industry. I mean the thing is, is that, you know, I think a lot of people miss that.
00:25:33.080 - 00:26:18.726, Speaker A: It's like you can do all of it. You can join a crypto startup working crypto, you can get equity slash tokens in that, in that startup and you can invest in liquid crypto tokens and you can even do angel investing if you're, if you meet the requirements for that, if you can get access to those deals. So you can do a bit of everything, which is, I mean there's not other, many other industries that allow you to do this. Even the traditional startup industry or kind of like in tech doesn't really allow you to do this to this extent. So I've told people before that that's the way you kind of like make it. I know I had a thread during the week where I went over the fact that you didn't really want to make it, but you wanted to turn making it into a perpetual process. I'm not going to go over that thread today, but essentially this, this is really where the most kind of like, you know, social capital and economic capital is made is by doing that.
00:26:18.726 - 00:26:51.586, Speaker A: So I don't know how many times I could say, guys, if you're not working in crypto yet and you want to work in crypto, now is the best time to do it. Like there is, there has never been a better time to work in this industry issue, that's for sure. All right, so I mentioned this last week, ethereumnodes.com from David Mihal here. This website and the reason I mentioned it last week allows you to see all of the RPC's that are alternatives to kind of like infura. So you can see here there are rpcs obviously from alchemy, myether wallet, my crypto flushbots and a bunch of others that are down right now. But you know, there are tons that are up still.
00:26:51.586 - 00:27:33.126, Speaker A: So if you don't want to use infuriating and you want to use something else that, yes, okay, centralized, but isn't infuria, you can use one of these alternatives. All you have to do is go to your metamask, go to, you know, add the new network, add the new RPC and, and away you go. Now I think in saying that all of these are centralized pretty much. And you know, they're probably going to be subject to the same kind of like rules and regulations and sanctions that they have to kind of, I guess, adhere to. That infuriate is we need decentralized alternatives, which we have in limited fashion, with pocket network, which is a pretty popular one. And you can run your own node as well, which I know a lot of people don't really want to do. And I went over this last week, so I'm not going to rehash it today.
00:27:33.126 - 00:28:10.520, Speaker A: But I mean, yeah, I just wanted to kind of, like, highlight this as an alternative. You can kind of like, change from infuria, but don't expect these kind of like, services to not block certain things either, because they're centralized right into the day. So best thing to do is run your own node, or, you know, run flashbots. Sorry. Or connect the flashbots, or use a decentralized relayer such as pocket network. All right, and finally here, there is a thread on all of the events accepting, currently accepting applications at Devconnect, which is obviously the event happening in Amsterdam. So if you're interested in kind of attending a lot of these events, you can definitely go check out this thread and.
00:28:10.520 - 00:28:29.480, Speaker A: And kind of like, apply to. To go to them. I'm gonna have this feeling, I mean, I have this feeling that pretty much all of these are gonna be completely packed and oversold and booked out, like. Absolutely, because there's just not gonna be that much room for them. I think that a lot of them are gonna be like, 500 people capacity, which is definitely not gonna be enough. But there's so many events. You don't have to go to all of them.
00:28:29.480 - 00:28:57.158, Speaker A: I obviously am not gonna be going to all of them. I'm definitely just gonna be hanging around a lot in Amsterdam, hanging around the events. They're all gonna be in kind of like the same place, and Amsterdam is a relatively small city as well, so I'm sure there's just going to be crypto people everywhere. Everyone's going to be running into each other, so it's fine. But if you have specific events that you want to go to, make sure you secure your spot early, because there's no guarantee you'll be able to get in on the day. And obviously, a lot of these things will be recorded and stuff like that. And that's all well and good, but you definitely want to secure your spot now, rather than waiting.
00:28:57.158 - 00:29:09.414, Speaker A: So just wanted to give you guys a heads up on that one. But I think, on that note, that's it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
