00:00:06.570 - 00:00:16.046, Speaker A: Welcome to Bankless, where we explore the frontier of Internet money and Internet finance. This is how to get started, how to get better, and how to front run the opportunity.
00:00:16.228 - 00:00:16.826, Speaker B: I'm Ryan.
00:00:16.858 - 00:00:28.102, Speaker A: Sean Adams. I'm here with David Hoffman and we're here to help you become more bankless. David, we have Vitalik on once again. What topics do we cover?
00:00:28.236 - 00:01:10.718, Speaker C: Yeah, we cover three of his most recent blogs on his Vitalik, CA blog. These are all fantastic reads. And in order to help amplify Vitalik's message and try and get out what he's trying to get out, we go through each of these blog pieces together. We start with his recap of 2020 and his forward looking kind of his forward looking predictions into 2021. That blog was particularly interesting. That's how we start the conversation. We move into his blog post called an incomplete guide to roll ups, and he kind of helped us unpack what it is to be a roll up, how we as an Ethereum l two scaling community landed on roll ups as a construction and why they are so powerful.
00:01:10.718 - 00:01:44.234, Speaker C: And then we also get into the topic of social recovery wallet. So these are all relatively three different topics, but I would say they are all forward looking topics that Vitalik sees as kind of like the logical conclusion of a lot of different forces, perhaps, maybe a lot of them social, a lot of them political, in his first blog post that we get into. But then the second two are more technological and about the way that Ethereum, the landscape is going to manifest and mature over time. So again, a wide ranging conversation, but still with a lot of awesome through lines. Absolutely.
00:01:44.352 - 00:02:07.540, Speaker A: If you're listening on the podcast, of course we have this on YouTube as well, where we actually go through the articles visually. If you're watching this on YouTube, you can check it out on the podcast and get it directly into your ears. Make it more portable that way. David, we should just get right into the interview. But before we do, guys, we want to talk about the sponsors that made this episode possible.
00:02:08.170 - 00:03:05.622, Speaker C: If you want to live a bankless life, you need to get a monolith Defi Visa card. Monolith is a one two punch of both an Ethereum smart contract wallet and an accompanying Visa card that lets you spend the money that you have in your Ethereum wallet everywhere where Visa is accepted. When you swipe your monolith Visa card at the grocery store or at a restaurant, it actually makes a transaction on the Ethereum blockchain that spends some of the money you hold in your monolith wallet. It's insanely cool and it's one of the best tools out there for living a bankless but still normal life. Monolith also offers on ramp services for getting your fiat money into the world of defi, so it's trivial to top up your monolith card if you ever need to, and your deposited money goes straight into your non custodial wallet. So your money is never held by a centralized intermediary. Because monolith is native Ethereum infrastructure, the money you hold in your monolith wallet still has the power of defi behind it.
00:03:05.622 - 00:04:06.010, Speaker C: Swapping assets on uniswap or earning yield in defi is at your fingertips. Go to Monolith XYZ and sign up to get your monolith Visa card today, Gemini is the world's most trusted cryptocurrency exchange. I've been a customer of Gemini since I first got back into crypto back in 2017, and it has been my main exchange of choice to make my crypto buys and sells. Gemini is available in all 50 states, in over 50 countries worldwide, and on Gemini, there are markets for over 30 various crypto assets, including many of the hot DFI tokens like Wifi, Ave, Uni, and also they are one of the few exchanges that has liquid dai markets. Having both the option of logging into the Gemini.com website or instead opening the Gemini mobile app has allowed me to be able to access any and all exchange and on or off ramp services that I've needed to on a moment's notice. With instant deposits and fast withdrawals, I'm able to make my money do the things I want it to, when I want it to.
00:04:06.010 - 00:04:35.634, Speaker C: You can buy crypto safely and securely on Gemini with the peace of mind of knowing that your investments are insured and protected. With industry leading cybersecurity, you can open up a free account in under 3 minutes@gemini.com. Gobankless and if you trade more than $100 within the first 30 days after sign up, you'll be gifted a free $15 bonus. Check them out. Gemini.com gobankless okay, bankless nation, we have.
00:04:35.672 - 00:04:42.440, Speaker A: Vitalik Buterin with us once again, who needs no introduction to bankless. Vitalik, how are you doing today?
00:04:42.970 - 00:04:44.598, Speaker B: I'm great. How are you?
00:04:44.684 - 00:05:18.514, Speaker A: I'm doing great. Good morning to you, sir. We wanted to talk about three of the recent articles you put out, and I think the one to start with may be the one you kind of bookmarked on the end of 2020. 2020 was a crazy year, at least for me. It did not go the way I had thought it would go, and I think that's probably true for a lot of people. So let's start with that article. We're also going to talk about your roll ups article and then social recovery after that.
00:05:18.514 - 00:05:24.260, Speaker A: But let's talk about 2020. Why was it such a strange year?
00:05:26.410 - 00:06:20.854, Speaker B: Lots of things were strange. First of all, the virus was strange. Then politics in a lot of countries were strange. Life moved onto the Internet very quickly, and that made things that were already strange even more strange. First of all, just a whole bunch of things happened at the same time. But also, I think, in addition to some of the things that we saw that were fairly exclusive to 2020, it was also this year that I think really accelerated a lot of the trends that we've seen just already moving pretty quickly over the last couple of decades. So some of the more important ones that I talk mean, one of them is just the Internet becoming this much more important and quickly primary force in our lives.
00:06:20.854 - 00:07:20.602, Speaker B: I know you had Balaji on your podcast earlier, and he talked about the primary and the mirror, and this was kind of the flipping where the Internet became the primary. And I think that was completely true. But I also think it's important to really think through some of the consequences of what that being true means, because for a long time, people have talked about things like post scarcity economics and of zero marginal costs. What a world where most value is virtual and most things people care about are virtual, actually means, but the effects actually are profound. Right. And you don't, I think, kind of appropriately realize just how much needs to be rethought until you actually experience it. I highlighted a couple of things.
00:07:20.602 - 00:08:07.000, Speaker B: Like, I kind of talked about how important public goods are on the Internet, for example, I talked about how important, even just the different ways in which economics applies. Basically, the challenge with kind of online activity generally is that it's just much more difficult to formalize kind of things that are going on because in the physical world, we've done this fairly thorough job of kind of formalizing. This is a transaction. This is a trade. This is private property. This is me selling something. This is you buying something.
00:08:07.000 - 00:09:16.302, Speaker B: But on the Internet, kind of, the lines are inherently much more blurry. There's a lot of kind of complicated kind of psychology mixing into everything else. And so it's very hard to even just mathematically model things that are going on. Right? Like in, say, the traditional world, you can use things like demand and supply curves, and you can try to measure what the price of apples is, how the price of apples will change if someone spins up a new farm, or if an old farm shuts down, even things like war, you have things like Lanchester's laws, and you can try to measure how much damage an army will take if it fights another army. And in reality, there's a lot of noise, but there's things that you can try to kind of make mathematical models of. But on the Internet, it's just this incredibly chaotic space. And whether or not some particular tweet that someone makes gets 100 retweets or 1 million retweets, it's something that often just completely cannot be predicted ahead of time.
00:09:16.302 - 00:11:18.500, Speaker B: It's this environment where you just don't really know, and there's this really complex set of interactions within this kind of primordial soup. And how do you even make, say, a mathematical model about what bitcoin maximalists are going to do on Twitter? Well, okay, realistically, you can just copy what they say at twelve months ago and then maybe change, like, one or two words, but the results of those interactions are just something that's much more difficult to explain using tools that were optimized for explaining different things, basically, right? And so, basically, one of the ideas that I wanted to make is just that understanding different kinds of mass psychology has become more important, right? Like Twitter runs on mass psychology, political movements run on mass psychology, bitcoin maximalism runs on mass psychology, and ethereum maximalism runs on mass psychology. And these aren't really tools that have been typically used to describe, say, meat space economies. But realistically, if we want to understand which cryptocurrencies are going to be important ten years from now, the psychological tools are even more important than the economic tools in terms of just understanding what's actually going to happen there, right? Basically, I think it's just realizing kind of the relative importance of these different tools and how we just need different ways of understanding. This kind of world where everyone is just so quickly interacting with everyone else, and just the one action can have extremely large consequences very quickly is just something that's very important.
00:11:19.270 - 00:11:58.180, Speaker C: Talik Ryan started off this conversation asking about. He said that the trajectory of 2020 ended up being very far off from what he thought it was. And this is something I hear you echoing. When you say, like the calculation or the calculus behind predictions around mass psychology is all haywire at this point. It's all very different from what we expect. At the same time, I've heard other people give different attitudes about 2020, which is perhaps less that 2020 was a massive curveball and there was perhaps less of a pivot of humanity than what we thought, but rather just an acceleration. Right.
00:11:59.270 - 00:12:45.970, Speaker B: I think that's the point I'm trying to make as well. These things were true well before 2020. It's just that 2020 was the year where we just suddenly flipped the switch from being maybe, let's say, in 2018, life was like, say, 20% Internet. In 2019, it was 22% Internet. And then in 2020, it just flipped over to being, like, 60% Internet. So there's definitely trends that were growing before, and all of these things did exist before. But the fact that we saw this sudden shift to the majority of a person's life experience, or at least the part of a life experience that involves him interacting with other people, being behind a computer screen, is something that's very significant.
00:12:46.710 - 00:13:04.360, Speaker C: What characteristics or dispositions or just traits would you say would excel as a result of the changes that we've seen in 2020? What types of people do you think are going to do really well in comparison to others in this decade coming?
00:13:06.010 - 00:14:35.218, Speaker B: I think people who are not too stuck in existing ways of thinking, institutions that were created relatively more recently, as opposed to much older ones, people who just generalists is another really important category. I think we saw this with even just the coronavirus, for example. Right. If you're an excellent epidemiologist, but you're terrible at understanding how human beings respond to messaging, then you're going to have bad predictions. If you're an expert at how humans respond to messaging, but you're a terrible epidemiologist, and you don't have the skills needed to just triangulate information from people who are good epidemiologists, then you're going to have bad predictions on the coronavirus. The fact that we have these forces just all densely interacting with each other basically means that there's a huge premium on being able to have your hand in pretty much all of them to at least some extent. And there's definitely people who I think do that well, and it does get easier to see people who do that less well.
00:14:35.218 - 00:14:35.762, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:14:35.816 - 00:15:12.042, Speaker A: I think that this was something that really shaped 2020 and comes out in your article that actually understanding the world in 2020 or actually even predicting the future required very much of this interdisciplinary approach. Right. You talked about the idea of there's economics and there's politics. Right. But there's also a blend, which is this idea of a political economy. And you talked about how in 2020, we saw governments acting much more like market actors. They were almost acting like companies, market forces.
00:15:12.042 - 00:15:59.230, Speaker A: Getting involved in that direct way. And then you had, on the flip side, corporations acting like governments. And then I think the same sort of applies in crypto, too. It's really the multidisciplinary thinker that understands this space and succeeds in this space. And you talked a little bit about crypto as a social system, too. Why is it so important, I guess, to be a multidisciplinary thinker in predicting the world of 2020 as it gets more complicated? And then why is that also important in crypto? Is it just that all of these systems are so interrelated together that you have to think of them as a holistic system and you can't kind of carve out the pieces?
00:16:00.370 - 00:16:56.850, Speaker B: Right. Crypto definitely is a social system. And as one of our favorite quotes goes, layer zero is people. There is that layer, and then there's also the layer of the economics and things like how staking works, things like how the various DFI interactions work, and all of these things interact with each other. So this is also just another example where 2020 is more of a trend acceleration. I've been trying to point out some of these things for a long time. So one example of this is just collusion in terms of, let's say, can collusion break, say, proof of work mining? Right? From an economic analysis point of view, we have answers, right? 51% can do whatever the hell they want, and 33% can salvage mine.
00:16:56.850 - 00:18:35.978, Speaker B: So that's basically about as far as economics can get you. Now, then there's the question, well, let's suppose that the network is broken up into one pool that has 9%, one pool that has 8%, one pool that has 7%, one pool that has 6%, and one pool that has 5%, and then a bunch of smaller pools. So the top five pools together are going to make up 35%. Right now, 35% is greater than 33%. Can those five pools together salvage mine? Well, that actually depends on whether or not those five entities are able to work together. And that is a question of cultural issues much more than it is a question of economic issues. Right? So you have to answer questions like, well, what is the internal structure of those pools? Are those pools owners friendly with each other? Do they all go to the same bars? Are they in the same chat groups? Are they all chinese, or are they all american, or are some of them chinese and some american and some from Guatemala? Do they all speak the same language? Do they have the same political opinion on some random meat space issue? You have to start kind of thinking about all of these questions in order, because they all just have an influence on whether or not those five pools actually can get along in order to make an attack.
00:18:35.978 - 00:19:37.026, Speaker B: And then, of course, there's a question of, well, what are the moral values in the community? And are any of those pools going to be morally averse to attacking? Are any of the pools going to try to whistleblow if they get called up to participate in this collusion? Issues about kind of morality and just what people's ethical views are actually starts to become very important when you start talking about coordination. Basically, there is some amounts that the economics can say, and then there is this other amount, which usually you can kind of sum up to, which actors actually are only going to act as separate actors and which actors can work together and kind of approximate one larger actor. And you have to just ask about all these cultural and social forces if you want the answer to that second question. And of course, all these systems do interact with each other, right?
00:19:37.048 - 00:20:18.050, Speaker A: So what you're saying, Vitalik, is Economics doesn't measure all of these other things, right? It doesn't necessarily measure some of the social factors. And you asked the question about what actually motivates human beings, and it turns out that money is one motivator. Maybe it's even sort of a useful motivator because it's a common denominator type motivator, but it's far from the only motivator of human behavior. There are so many other motivators of human behavior. I liked a tweet that you put out recently, something to the effect of even a billion dollars of capital can't compete with a project having a soul. Right?
00:20:18.200 - 00:20:20.030, Speaker B: That wasn't a tweet. That was part of the article.
00:20:20.110 - 00:20:42.650, Speaker A: It was part of the article. Okay. That's kind of what you're saying is there's actual tangible value in a project having a culture and a set of beliefs. Can you get into that a little bit more? So what do you mean about why is it important to understand what motivates us in order to understand crypto economic systems?
00:20:44.750 - 00:21:38.726, Speaker B: So I think the thing that's important to remember is that all open source ecosystems and Internet ecosystems more generally rely on a huge amount of free and uncompensated labor. Right? There's many kinds of free and uncompensated labor, right? So there's things like writing blogs and just answering to people's posts when they ask for help on Reddit or in some discord chat. There's participating in GitHub discussions. There's even just educating people about whatever project you're in on Twitter, there's running meetups, just answering other people's questions in meetups.
00:21:38.918 - 00:21:41.440, Speaker C: That's how I got my start in this space. Absolutely.
00:21:42.850 - 00:22:35.214, Speaker B: There's writing code, writing patches to other people's code. There's just this really long list of behaviors. And if you don't have people that are just doing those things because they love the project, then you're just going to have an extremely hard time. Right? And I think we see this with a lot of these NFBC chain projects. They often take this very proprietary route. They're going to say, no, we're going to lock 50 professionals together in a room and pay them all like $500,000 a year and just get them to build an awesome blockchain and an awesome client in six months. And sure, that can build a software package, but that's not going to build an ecosystem, right? That's not going to build all of these kind of things that go around the software that people don't even realize are important.
00:22:35.214 - 00:23:56.342, Speaker B: And if you build your thing that way, then eventually you're just going to have to burn even more money trying to kind of pay people to do all of that as well. If you treat building a software project purely as the way that a centralized company would treat it, then you're just leaking inefficiency pretty much everywhere. Right. You basically have to pay people to do all of this work, but that's work that people under the right circumstances would actually just love doing, right? And it's important to remember what those circumstances are, right. People do need to have a feeling that they're not being exploited, a feeling that they're participating in a system which is good for them and good for other people as well. And there are projects that are just doing a good job of this, right? Even just things like airdrops, for example, are one example of this. You just kind of like sprinkle a bunch of tokens basically for free to an entire community, and you just swap, did this great.
00:23:56.342 - 00:24:46.790, Speaker B: And I thought that was a kind of great move to get this kind of community engagement. Basically as an open source project. You just have to just create an environment where people are interested in participating, people are willing to participate, and where people in some sense feel like the community that they are contributing to belongs to them and not just the company that's theoretically in charge of building the thing. Or ideally, that company doesn't even need to be in charge of, there doesn't need to be a single company in charge of the thing.
00:24:46.940 - 00:25:49.930, Speaker C: I think the best and most salient example to back this up is the absolute gargantuan amount of free marketing that both bitcoin and Ethereum receive from their respective communities. Right? Bitcoin podcasts are just done for financial purposes. Peter McCormick and his podcast is a very well financed podcast, but he also has huge clout in the community, and so do all the other bitcoin podcasts. And the Ethereum media ecosystem, which bankless is a part of, is also following in those footsteps. Bankless ETH hub the defiant Ethereum media is doing really well, and I think one of the reasons why these public blockchains receive so much tailwinds from all this free marketing is what you alluded to just a, just now, but b also in your article as neutrality, bitcoin and ethereum have neutrality. Maybe you could talk about how neutrality plays a role in people's desires to commit their time and energy and human capital into these systems.
00:25:50.510 - 00:27:46.800, Speaker B: So neutrality, basically just me, or I prefer even using the word credible neutrality, which kind of emphasizes the social psychology aspect of it, which is that it's not just about convincing me that something is neutral, it's about convincing each of us that each other will may consider the system to be neutral. And so it's something that lots of people can get behind at the same time. And I think that neutrality is just important, basically, and a big factor of it is just like people are willing to contribute, but people don't want to feel like they're exploited and they don't want to feel like all that they're doing is to just enrich some special interest. Another part of this is that people wants to contribute to a system where they can feel kind of some degree of personal ownership over it. Also, just people would prefer to participate in a system where they have some guarantee that the system is not going to unfairly go against them in the future. And all of these things are just much easier to accomplish when you have a system that actually is neutral, right? Like when you have something like an open source project or a blockchain, or just generally something that has kind of the rules set up in such a way that you actually can make some kind of case that it does treat everyone fairly. And that's something that centralized systems just do end up failing at all the time, right? When they make any kinds of just decisions about lots of things, it's just hard to figure out whether some decision actually is a needed technical feature, or whether it's just to preserve the company's business model or something like that.
00:27:46.800 - 00:28:03.080, Speaker B: If you have a project where there is this kind of centralized company that feels like it's controlling things and it's getting most of the benefit, then you just lose the ability to kind of get these other benefits.
00:28:03.450 - 00:28:38.386, Speaker A: I was thinking, Vitalik, earlier, you used the term love, right? You said people, in order to tell others or volunteer, like answering questions or writing blog posts, they have to really love the project. Right? Love. And I was just thinking to myself, okay, I know that there are people who love bitcoin, right? It's very easy to see bitcoin passion. I know there are people who love Ethereum. I myself love Ethereum. There's elements of bitcoin I love too. And I was trying to think, like, what do I love so much about it? And definitely credible neutrality is sort of part of it.
00:28:38.386 - 00:29:27.620, Speaker A: And even more broadly than that, for me, it's about kind of the value system that I really identify with, right. So there's something about Ethereum and to a lesser extent bitcoin that I believe is net positive for the world, right. I think the thing that we're building with decentralized capital coordination, human coordination tools, is going to reap the world. My kids, our grandkids, future generations, some net benefit. I believe that the world is skewed much more towards centralized systems, and we need to kind of like balance the force at some level, right? It's this set of values that would, honestly, I would work for Ethereum for free, right?
00:29:30.870 - 00:29:33.234, Speaker C: Yeah, we both started that way.
00:29:33.432 - 00:30:19.140, Speaker A: Right? And here's the thing is, you couldn't pay me enough upside to invest in some crypto projects out there. There's no amount of money you could pay me to put a dime into Tron. I don't care how much money I'd make. I just don't adhere to the value system. What is it about? Like, I guess, how do you create a culture like that? It's even sometimes hard to articulate exactly all of the values that Ethereum has. But how important are values, and how do you foster that? How do you create that in a community? Or does it just happen organically? Can you not create these things? I don't know. What are your thoughts here?
00:30:20.070 - 00:31:09.042, Speaker B: I think founders are important, and the very early kind of influential members in a community are important. Basically the way that the community is near the beginning basically just kind of sets the focal point. It sets the standard for this is a community of people who believe these things. And if you're an outsider and you think you believe roughly those things, then you would feel inclined and then of welcome to join the community. And if you don't believe those things, then you would feel inclined to go join other communities. So I think once that kind of seed has been planted, then it's easier to maintain it, though it does still take work to maintain it. Right.
00:31:09.042 - 00:31:30.230, Speaker B: It is still possible, I think, for a community to just drift over time into being something much less interesting. But the really important work, I think, is just creating that seed at the beginning. And if you don't have that seed at the beginning, then that's something that's extremely hard to create retroactively.
00:31:31.290 - 00:32:31.950, Speaker A: What you're talking about, Vitalik, almost reminds me of sort of like the way a religion might be founded, right? There's this set of values and people self select. No one's forcing you necessarily into a religion at know, in most areas of the world that's not the case, but you kind of subscribe to a set of value systems, and then you find yourself pulled into that specific religion or way of thinking. And I guess that's the social element here, too. But you also addressed in your article how this can kind of take a dark turn, too. You said we thought we were building nations, and it turns out what we got was digital nationalism, right? So this idea of, like, maximalism, how can cultures kind of turn a little bit dark? And I guess, I don't know a word for it, but, like, small senile, small in their thinking, small tent and closed minded might be, might be some words to describe it. What are some of the negative effects of this social dynamic in crypto?
00:32:35.570 - 00:33:52.680, Speaker B: I think, first of all, one of the points that I feel like I tried to get across is that we saw, even down to a very fine level of detail phenomena happening in cryptocurrencies that seem to almost perfectly mirror phenomena that we see in political systems, right? We see things like the civil war between. You have a civil war inside of country x, and then eventually country x splits in half. And then you have one country that's called democratic Republic of X and the other country that's called people's Republic of X, or whatever the word permutations are. And then you have some other country y, and that country Y supports the one that looks more like an offshoot. And people in the other one think that country y is only supporting them because they want to drive a wedge and attack the first country. But people in country Y think that, well, no, the other one is just more aligned with their values. And then the story goes on, right? And in cryptocurrency land, we've basically replicated that exact phenomenon down to very fine levels of detail just basically within ten years.
00:33:52.680 - 00:34:32.306, Speaker B: I thought that was interesting. Right? It's interesting because if something can just appear twice in these completely different contexts with completely different kind of laws for what systems are and how they interact, then this is a very kind of deep and fundamental kind of primitive, of basically mass social interaction that is going to be very hard to kind of move beyond completely. Now, what you're talking about just for.
00:34:32.328 - 00:34:39.720, Speaker C: The listener is you're talking about the bitcoin. Bitcoin cash, civil war, and then you're also talking about the Ethereum. Ethereum classic split, correct?
00:34:41.450 - 00:36:16.630, Speaker B: Yeah. So the now, in terms of, I think, which communities are more healthy and which communities are less healthy. So one of the quotes, and this is one that I did make on Twitter a while ago, is, I think evil comes mostly not from greed, but from fear, right? We have a culture, I think, of thinking about greed as being kind of the ultimate evil and talking about evil villains who wants to take over the world, and evil banksters who wants to make billions of dollars by defrauding people and all of these things. But I think the reality is that people are much more easily able to convince themselves to do the worst things when they feel like they or their communities are under existential threat. And this is something that you see if you study interactions between countries and political parties and history more generally. And I think this is something that we see in the crypto space as well. The bitcoin community, or let's say the bitcoin small blockers, for example, I think genuinely felt like they and their values were under existential threat from the big blocker movement that was trying to push a hard fork to increase the block size.
00:36:16.630 - 00:37:20.780, Speaker B: I think the Ethereum community was at its worst. Maybe in one of the times was right after the Ethereum classic hard fork, where a lot of people were basically arguing that there's no legitimate reason to oppose the Dow fork and the people who are, or there's no legitimate reason to support Ethereum classic. And if you support Ethereum classic, chances are you're probably just a bitcoin show, which I think in a lot of cases just ended up being completely false. And I even believed some of those things myself at the time. But the reason why everyone was kind of whipped up into a frenzy is because this was the first time that that kind of hard fork in Ethereum happened. And it felt like Eth had gone down from twelve dollars to eight dollars, right? And etc had gone up from zero dollars to four dollars. And it felt like there was this existential possibility that the ETC situation would basically just completely wreck Ethereum as we know it.
00:37:20.780 - 00:38:36.866, Speaker B: When your community is faced with that kind of threat, then people are just going to act worse, right? And I think it's true with bitcoin, I think it's true with Ethereum as well. It's true with basically any community. And I guess the kind of normative conclusion from this, I think, is that if he wants to have better relations between communities, then basically communities just need to be able to convince each other that they are not interested in kind of violating each other's most fundamental existence, basically, right. That they're not interested in creating a scenario that would lead to the complete annihilation of the other one. And that's harder than it seems. You can't just kind of have a couple of leaders go out and say it, because there's inevitably some other people in the community who would go out and say something else. And then someone gets into a twitter fight and they say something that gets quoted for six months or five years.
00:38:36.866 - 00:40:25.086, Speaker B: But something like that kind of feels like it's basically the only way to have less of that sort of thing. And sometimes it is hard, right? Sometimes it's hard because the problem isn't just like the way people behave, the problem is just fundamentally what the things are. For example, if you're a bitcoin person and you believe that bitcoin only has value because of the network effect and because of being number one, then you perceive any other cryptocurrency getting too big relative to yourself as being an existential threat. Because if you become number two, then from your point of view, three months later, you're going to be number 200. Ethereum itself has kind of some risk of believing that if someday other smart contract platforms become popular, so creating a space and kind of creating intent to have an ecosystem that allows multiple crypto communities and even kind of multiple blockchains to survive, I think is this is one of the reasons why I tends to be fairly anti maximalist. I think it's just kind of necessary to have peace, right? The more people believe winner takes all, then the corollary of winner takes all is loser loses everything. And if people think that if they're the loser, they lose everything, then they're going to be willing to do just like the worst things in order to increase their chances of winning.
00:40:25.086 - 00:40:26.178, Speaker B: And that's something that I don't want.
00:40:26.184 - 00:41:00.350, Speaker A: To see there's an element of what you're saying in what you wrote, which is kind of like new system, same problems, the same sort of fragmentation and tribalism and nationalism that we see in political systems we are now seeing play out in crypto in remarkably similar ways. Does that make you a bit pessimistic about crypto in any way? So we've got a new system, but have we ported those same problems over? And is that reason to be pessimistic?
00:41:01.730 - 00:42:05.140, Speaker B: I don't think so. Well, I think pretty much almost inevitably from the beginning, I was expecting crypto to be a process of kind of starting off with very wild dreams, but a very small scale, and inevitably kind of scaling back on its dreams somewhat and kind of figuring out what parts of what it wants to accomplish are actually realistic, while at the same time actually becoming a significant force that can impact global affairs and the future of humanity. And I think we're on that trajectory, right? We're on that trajectory where it's clear that there's some things that crypto is not going to do and some things that crypto is not going to solve. But at the same time, it's gone up from being this tiny little bubble that nobody cares about to being this big thing that just all sorts of mainstream figures and artists and intellectuals are starting to really follow and care about.
00:42:07.130 - 00:42:19.400, Speaker C: What about the Ethereum community or Ethereum culture gives you pause or something? What about the Ethereum community? Would you criticize that you would like to see changed or just be worked on into the future?
00:42:19.930 - 00:43:53.030, Speaker B: I remember you asked me this question almost a year ago. I think one of the things I answered is just this kind of perception that bitcoin has a strong kind of focused narrative, whereas Ethereum does not. And I think my answer was something like, well, definitely in less certain terms, but because I guess it's hard for me to say it in less certain terms because I believe it more certainly now. It's like no focus is overrated. And the whole point of Ethereum is that it's not a missile, it's a jungle. And the point of Ethereum is that it's not trying to accomplish this one single thing of replacing global fiat currencies with ETH and using the power of austrian economic theory to ensure that this definitely brings human prosperity and doesn't lead to mass inequality if it happens over the course of three years or whatever. But I think Ethereum instead, there's many dreams, right? Obviously, I think Ethereum does inherit the kind of bitcoin dream of just creating this kind of independent asset that people can directly own and control without any reference to banking institutions or governments.
00:43:53.030 - 00:45:00.940, Speaker B: There's also this dream of enabling decentralized financial applications. There's also this dream of being this kind of common interaction layer for just different kinds of open source software. We had open source, and now we have openstate, and you can have these kind of applications that don't have a dependency on one single owner, but that can still interact with each other in much more interesting ways. We still have the dream of experimenting with decentralized governance and decentralized applications. We have things like prediction markets, and prediction markets have been very exciting over the last couple of months, and I think I've outed myself a couple of times as a proud entrust whale. That was interesting. That was one of the first times when the Ethereum blockchain was providing direct value to me as a user that I would just not be able to get on any other platform.
00:45:00.940 - 00:45:10.666, Speaker B: But by the way, just for the listeners, n Trump whale means someone who is buying tokens that pay one dollars if Trump does not win the election.
00:45:10.778 - 00:45:23.602, Speaker C: And importantly, you were buying them for less than a dollar after the election, correct. After the election was done, you were buying N Trump tokens which pay out a dollar if Trump doesn't actually win. And you were buying them for less than one dollars.
00:45:23.736 - 00:45:24.814, Speaker B: For $0.85.
00:45:24.862 - 00:45:26.210, Speaker C: Yes, for $0.85.
00:45:26.570 - 00:45:28.150, Speaker A: That is a thread.
00:45:32.250 - 00:46:19.510, Speaker B: So that was, so I think, like the, and then there's this big long tail of applications using them for some kind of, like, identity management, using them for. We'll talk about social recovery wallets later. But one of the ideas, the longer term ideas that I have is that I think you can have social recovery wallets for accessing web two services. So, like, accessing centralized services. And it would be nice to have ways of logging into centralized services that are not dependent on other centralized actors, like Google or Facebook or Twitter. But that's kind of skipping ahead, right? That's also a blockchain application. And then there's all of this identity, there's certificate related stuff.
00:46:19.510 - 00:47:06.126, Speaker B: There's just money, just transfers, remittances, donating to charity. So there's this just a long, interesting tale of applications. And there's plenty of people on Ethereum land who believe in some of those applications and don't believe in other applications. And the thing that I realized is that that's healthy, right? No, Ethereum is not a missile. That is a jungle, right? There is no single part of it that has to succeed for the whole thing to succeed. And it is just creating this new set of kind of tools and this technological and economic substrate for a new kind of economy. And that is the vision.
00:47:06.126 - 00:48:12.810, Speaker B: And that's something that I think was less clear to me a year ago, but it's becoming much more clear over time, and I feel like it's becoming much more clear to the Ethereum community itself as well, over time. So I think just kind of improving on kind of telling that story well is one thing that I think just continues to be important. I think it's just importance to kind of strike back against these kind of memes that some people give, which is that Ethereum has no values, or that recent article from Lynn Alden where I think she just said that bitcoin culture has more of this ethos and Ethereum culture is more gamers. And that makes me face love a bit. Nothing against gaming, but the vision is much broader than just gaming. But I think we've definitely been doing a not good enough job of properly articulating it. So that was one thing.
00:48:12.810 - 00:49:13.180, Speaker B: The other thing, of course, is it would be nice if we can find some way to kind of communicate a narrative to other crypto projects to just convince them that Ethereum is not an existential threat to them, and that basically that Ethereum is not an everything killer. Right? And I think it's true that Ethereum is not an everything killer. And there's lots of other projects that have managed to kind of exist in various kinds of, kind of symbiosis with Ethereum, and I think that's great. So the more we can kind of get other community energy, other communities and their energies to be kind of working with the ecosystem instead of them just very understandably feeling forced, like they have to compete against it. And then the better.
00:49:14.030 - 00:49:59.638, Speaker C: As our conversation around this particular blog post comes to a close, I'd like to read out some of your conclusions that you put in the last paragraph. And by the way, to the listeners, this conversation that we're having with Vitalik here is a great supplement to the blog post, but absolutely not a replacement. So you can definitely go and read the blog post yourself at Vitalik, ca. You will find it there. In your conclusion, Vitalik, you write three short bullets and I would like to read them here and we can go over them. One to one interactions this is your predictions for your assessment for the current state of the world. So we have a world where one to one interactions are less important, one to many and many to many interactions are more important and then the next bullet.
00:49:59.638 - 00:50:32.550, Speaker C: The environment is much more chaotic and difficult to model with clean and simple equations. Many to many interactions, particularly follow strange rules that we still do not understand well. And then lastly, the environment is dense, and different categories of powerful actors are forced to live quite closely side by side with each other. We've talked about some of these topics already here so far in this conversation, but I just like to turn the mic over to you and kind of get you to expand on some of these thoughts, predictions, and how the evidence that you saw play out in 2020 kind of led you to these conclusions.
00:50:33.130 - 00:51:37.734, Speaker B: Sure. So for the first one, I talked about this a bit, right? Like, traditional economics tends to deal more with these one to one interactions where there's one buyer and there's one seller, and you just have this series of transactions where Alice sells an apple to Bob, Alice sells a different apple to Charlie. And if Bob has the money but Charlie doesn't, then Bob gets the apple and Charlie doesn't. And so you have this economy that you can kind of fairly easily decompose into these fairly small interactions. And we have things like these fundamental welfare theorems, supply demand curves, just all of these long list of economic principles for dealing with those things. But on the Internet, the average interaction is not one to one. Right? We are recording this podcast, but then lots of people are going to be listening to it, right? That in itself is like a 3000 interaction every time I write an article.
00:51:37.734 - 00:52:19.500, Speaker B: That's a one to 10,000 interaction. Every piece of code going to the that gets uploaded to an Ethereum client is a few to many interaction. A conversation on Twitter is a many to many interaction. Even just like the mass of psychology and economics of these self referential crypto markets is a many to many interaction. So those more complicated forms of behavior are just becoming more important pieces of understanding of the world as it's going to be. And then an important result of this is just that the environment is much more chaotic. Right.
00:52:19.500 - 00:52:49.138, Speaker B: There's a lot of consequences of these interactions that are just hard to predict, hard to understand. Sometimes we don't yet have good tools for understanding them. Sometimes there just are no good tools for understanding them. And it's just more challenging to understand what the results of these things are. And so we just need to kind of keep a more open mind toward these things. And then the last one, I think, is also important. Right.
00:52:49.138 - 00:53:56.786, Speaker B: This goes back to the section that's right before the section at the end. Right. This idea that the world in general is this kind of dense environment where we have these different categories of powerful actors. So one of the things that I talked about is basically did kind of the cipher punk movement as defined by things like these 1996 crypto anarchists to documents succeed or fail. And the question is basically, it turns out the answer depends on is your goal eliminating big government, or is your goal creating big something other than government? Right. If your goal is the first one, then you failed, and if your goal is the second one, then you completely succeeded in 2020, big government is still strong, but big business is strong. At the same time, it's definitely at least looking like the US's space program at this point is basically Elon Musk.
00:53:56.786 - 00:54:51.530, Speaker B: And that's something that I think might have been even difficult to foresee even ten years ago. Right. But at the same time, especially with the virus situation and both things like lockdowns and things like vaccine distributions, governments are clearly this continue to be this big and important force. And then there's also kind of big things other than governments. There's just big amorphous, just mobs, big ideologies, big movements. And so there's just all of these different kind of large scale forms of human in coordination, both centralized and decentralized. And they're just all at all time highs of power at the same time.
00:54:51.530 - 00:55:24.980, Speaker B: Right. And that's not really a frame that I think most people were thinking about ten years ago. Right. I think most people ten years ago would have been thinking about the frame of being, well, it's a kind of neither can live while the other survives situation. And it turns out that, well, no, both of them live, and both of them or all of them are living, and all of them are surviving and even thriving. And yes, the interactions between them are kind of just very complicated. And I think this is also a bit of a harbinger toward the kind of role that I expect crypto to play.
00:55:24.980 - 00:55:43.610, Speaker B: I don't expect crypto to just kind of wash away all of these existing, even more centralized forms of coordination. I expect it to kind of complement and provide an alternative to them. And I think that's something that it's well on the way to doing quite successfully.
00:55:45.870 - 00:56:26.600, Speaker A: Well, Vitalik, this has been a fantastic deep dive into your know, one last question that is maybe more in the current event camp, but I think maybe fits the mold of this article before we move on to roll ups. So eth price just recently hit all time high. And of course, we talked about how these crypto systems are very much psychological systems as well as social systems and all of these things. Do you think eth at all time high is good for the collective psychology and community of Ethereum or bad? Because I think somebody could make the case for either or. What's your take?
00:56:28.990 - 00:56:56.900, Speaker B: Good question. I think all time highs are definitely psychologically good for a community. The thing I think that's like in general, I feel like whenever there's a bull run, the first half of the bull run is very healthy. The second half of the bull run is very unhealthy. Oh crap. Did I just corner myself into a price prediction by implicitly calling now the first half of the bull run.
00:56:58.870 - 00:57:01.250, Speaker A: Ever Vitalik price prediction?
00:57:04.150 - 00:58:12.300, Speaker B: Don't well, okay. What I will say is that to me, the present moment kind of psychologically feels like the first half of a bull run. But then again, at the same time, these are in some ways fundamentally new and uncharted waters, and the trend can easily break. And it could easily be one of those bull runs that just abruptly ends during the first half that happens all the time. The XRP bull run definitely abruptly ended when the SEC kind of delightfully sent the thing crashing. So in terms of kind of people's psychological experiences, I think it definitely kind of feels like it's in this sort of relatively kind of healthy phase right now. But it is one of those things that inevitably ends up kind of flipping into a less psychologically healthy phase, especially if it goes on long enough that people start feeling like they're entitled to it.
00:58:12.300 - 00:58:53.814, Speaker B: And that's always happened historically, right? And there's always been these periods where people just almost stop working because they're just too focused on the price. And then also, in addition to the effects on the psychology, there's also things that happen in bull runs, like transaction fees going up really high. And that's definitely something that I'm hoping that crypto. Sorry. That the ethereum ecosystem kind of solves very soon. We already have the technology, right? ZK roll ups have been running for months. Optimism announced their very first limited main net last week.
00:58:53.814 - 00:59:21.326, Speaker B: But we do just need to get to the point where these scaling techniques, roll ups in particular, are just actually able to absorb even the existing demand, right? Because right now, transaction fees are high. I tried out the social recovery wallets for Argent and I looked at the transactions and the recoveries cost $50. And that's just crazy, right? Like, no, this stuff needs to move on to roll ups very quickly.
00:59:21.428 - 01:00:16.090, Speaker C: If you are looking for a product that connects your fiat bank account with DFI tokens and products, you need to download the Dharma mobile app Dharma is a noncustodial smart contract wallet and comes with a bridge that connects you right into your bank account. Dharma is the fastest and most efficient wallet between your fiat and your bank account and any token on uniswap or even any vault in yearn. With Dharma, you can get over $25,000 per week into the DFI universe, and you can do it noncustodially. If you or anyone you know is hot on defi and you're trying to get your money into a defi investment, dharma is the place to go. Signing up and going through KYC is an absolute breeze. It took me just under 3 minutes, and after signing into my bank account via plaid, I am now just one transaction away from any token that Uniswap has to offer. Go to ww dharma IO.
01:00:16.090 - 01:01:11.118, Speaker C: That's D-H-A-R-M-A IO. Download the Dharma app and get yourself unbanked today. Ave is a borrowing and lending protocol on Ethereum and just recently released Ave version two, which has a ton of cool new features that makes using Ave even more powerful. With ave, you can leverage the full power of DFI money, legos, yield and composability all in one application. On Ave, there are a ton of assets that you can deposit in order to gain yield, and all of those same assets can also be borrowed from the protocol. If you have deposited collateral here, you can see me getting a 200 USDC loan against my portfolio of a number of different DFI tokens and ETH. I'll choose a variable interest rate because it's a lower rate than the stable interest rate option, but I could choose the stable interest rate option if I wanted to lock that interest rate in permanently.
01:01:11.118 - 01:01:30.994, Speaker C: One of Ave's V two features is the ability to swap collateral without having to withdraw your assets, trade them on uniswap, and then deposit them back into Ave. Ave does all of this for you, all in one seamless transaction so you don't have to repay loans in order to change the collateral you have backing them. Check out the power of aave@aave.com that's.
01:01:31.042 - 01:01:52.618, Speaker A: A v e.com this is an incomplete guide to roll ups. So Vitalik, can we go through the incomplete guide to roll ups and maybe direct this to someone who has heard about the buzz that maybe roll ups are Ethereum's next big scaling solution? Right? And it's kind of the promised land of reducing gas fees.
01:01:52.714 - 01:01:54.526, Speaker B: Tell us, what are roll ups?
01:01:54.558 - 01:01:56.260, Speaker A: Where would you like to start with this?
01:01:56.950 - 01:02:45.550, Speaker B: Sure. So roll ups are a member of this family of scalability solutions that we call L2 scaling. There's this long running dichotomy between layer one scaling and L2 scaling, where layer one scaling says we increase how many transactions we can process by making the blockchain able to process more transactions. And L2 scaling says we increase the number of transactions we can process by moving work off chain. And instead of running everything on chain directly, we only run kind of more limited verification activities on chain. And so we use these more clever contraptions to reduce the need to use the chain in the first place. And in the case of bitcoin, this was basically the topic of their civil war.
01:02:45.550 - 01:03:47.202, Speaker B: But in the case of Ethereum, we're basically doing layer one and L2 scaling at the same time, right? We have sharding for layer one scaling, but we also have this very kind of healthy and rich L2 scaling ecosystem. And I talk about the three scaling approaches. So there's channels in plasma and roll ups, and channels are this method for optimizing one to one interactions. So for example, channels are really good at the use case of let's say I'm selling you an Internet connection and you want to pay me per megabyte, right? And then what would happen is that I would start for giving you an Internet connection and then every time it would reach 1 would just send me these off chain messages that I call tickets. So your first ticket would be a signed message that just says I'm paying you 0.1, your second ticket would be a message that says I'm paying you 0.2, and so forth.
01:03:47.202 - 01:04:57.030, Speaker B: And the way this works is that I only needs to actually put on chain the very last ticket or the highest value ticket that you send, right? And so basically what you're doing is you're making these payments, but we're not yet committing them, and you just constantly keep paying more by just replacing these payments with higher value payments. And then when I publish the last payments on chain, I'm basically kind of settling all of these payments at the same time. And it's happening in one transaction. And the smart contract implements this kind of interaction game where basically, let's say if you try to submit one of your tickets that has a smaller payment, then I can challenge and I can send your ticket that has the higher payment. Or if I just disappear completely, then you can send your own payment or your own tickets to close the channel and get your money back and so on. So channels are good for bi directional payments. And there are things like the Lightning network and raiden that tried to expand that out to broader payment networks.
01:04:57.030 - 01:05:55.246, Speaker B: But they also do have some weaknesses, right? They're fairly complicated to deal with. They have these high capital requirements and so forth. Then there's plasma. And plasma is this very technically clever construction that it turns out plasma is really amazing for dealing with non fungible tokens, because the whole idea with plasma is that you basically assign every unit of an asset a different id, and then you have this kind of Merkel tree contraption where if an asset has some sub idx, then the transaction that corresponds to that address goes into a Merkel tree at index X. And then you publish the Merkel roots on chain. And then if someone who has some asset X wants to withdraw it, then they would publish an operation on chain, and then they would have to provide that Merkel branch. And if someone else wants to challenge them, well, they can do that.
01:05:55.246 - 01:06:48.010, Speaker B: And then all the challenges happen just by providing these Merkel branches. So plasma is this really clever thing. It's good for asset transfers, it's good for payments that can be used for exchange. So the OMG network has been doing a great job of pushing the plasma vision toward its logical conclusion and basically doing as great a job as it can possibly be done with it. So very happy that their work exists. But then we move on to the third solution, which is roll ups. And roll ups are a fascinating class of technology, because in some ways, they're not a full L2 scheme, right? And what I mean by that is that in a traditional L2 scheme, all the data and all the computation of at least each additional transaction is fully off chain.
01:06:48.010 - 01:07:36.894, Speaker B: Right? Like in plasma, you do have to publish Merkel roots on chain, but that's 32 bytes. It's 32 bytes if there's ten users, and it's 32 bytes if there's 10,000 users. In a roll up, you have to publish. It looks like somewhere around like ten to 15 bytes of data on chain for every transaction. Now you are able to move all the computation off chain and you are able to move most of the data off chain, but you do need to have some amounts of data on chain for every transaction. And it turns out that the ability to have data on chain basically just gets around some very fundamental game theory issues that have to do with data availability. And in my blog post, I linked to this YouTube video that I made.
01:07:36.894 - 01:08:26.714, Speaker B: I think it was in some Stanford conference or meetup or one of those, where I just talk about why data availability is hard and why there's these complicated game theory issues around. Basically, you can't have a fraud proof system for data the same way you can have a fraud proof system for computation and roll ups. Plasma and channels kind of get around this issue by relying on this explicit concept of owners that basically says that every asset has an owner. And if the owner for that asset misbehaves, then the system can fail. But the system can fail in only one direction. And that direction, basically, is that the owner loses the asset. But in a roll up, you actually can just make a hard guarantee that says the state definitely will be processed correctly.
01:08:26.714 - 01:09:14.186, Speaker B: And it turns out that that's really important if you want applications to become more general purpose. Right? Because in more general purpose applications, you can't map assets to owners. Who's the owner of Uniswap is the easiest example. There is no single actor who's kind of the logical beneficiary of everything that happens inside of uniswap. It's just this automated thing that exists on chain, and it benefits everyone, and it's owned by no one. So then I get into, basically, how does a roll up work, right? And the core idea of a roll up is basically that there is a smart contract on chain, and the smart contract maintains a state route. It maintains, basically a Merkel hash of all the state inside the roll up.
01:09:14.186 - 01:09:58.598, Speaker B: So that means all the account balances, all the contract code, everything inside the roll up, you have this Merkel hash. And that Merkel hash gets maintained by the roll up contract. Anyone can publish what we call a batch. And a batch is basically this collection of transactions in this very compressed form, together with basically a record of the previous state route and a record of the new state route. So a batch is basically a claim that says if you start here, if you start from this state route and you apply these transactions, then this is the new state route. Now, in reality, the batch by itself does not have enough information to fully compute the new state route. Because if you want to actually compute that, you need to have the Merkle branches.
01:09:58.598 - 01:11:00.986, Speaker B: And of course, you don't actually want to compute all this stuff on chain. So instead, what happens is that the roll up just believes the batches by default. And then you have one of two mechanisms for proving that these batches are correct, right? So one of them is optimistic roll ups, and the other is ZK roll ups. And here's where we get to the core difference between these two great families of roll ups, right? In an optimistic roll up, what you have is a system where you basically kind of trust but verify, right? So the smart contract kind of trusts the batches by default, and it just accepts the results of the batches by default. But then there are nodes in the network that actually do run the full computation. And if one of them discovers that something is wrong, then they can publish a challenge. And if they get challenged correctly, then the batch that's incorrect gets reverted and whoever submitted the batch loses their deposit and the challenger gets a reward.
01:11:00.986 - 01:11:44.878, Speaker B: And then you kind of continue from there. So optimistic basically says trust by default, but if someone challenges, then if the thing they challenge is incorrect, then you reverted. And as long as you trust that there is at least somebody online who can revert, then the mechanism works. Now, ZK roll ups, they use validity proofs, right? ZK roll ups use these kind of fancy cryptographic proofs that we call ZK snarks, and they basically prove directly that the post state route is a correct result of executing the batch on top of the prestate route. And the way that these proofs work is really complicated. I've tried to make a couple of explanations of this. I'm sure I'll try making more explanations of this in the future.
01:11:44.878 - 01:12:39.262, Speaker B: But these are just incredibly powerful and just incredibly clever mathematical contraptions that actually let you make a proof of a computation that takes a long time to compute where that proof itself can be verified extremely quickly. And this is what ZK rollups rely on. So there's these fairly complicated trade offs between optimistic and ZK roll ups, right? In terms of the fixed gas cost of each batch, which influences how frequently batches can be published, the withdrawal period. So optimistic roll ups, the fixed cost per batch is much smaller, which means batches can be published much more frequently. ZK roll ups have instant withdrawals. Optimistic roll ups have withdrawals that take one week. But the thing that you can do if you want optimistic roll ups to have instant withdrawals is you can basically have a kind of third party market.
01:12:39.262 - 01:13:10.826, Speaker B: So basically, if I have, say, one ETH that's being withdrawn in progress, then if you were validating the roll up and you are perfectly confident that that withdrawal is correct, then what you can do is you can just buy that, buy my right to one ETH for say, one ETH minus a fee, you can just buy up my withdrawal rights for, say, 0.99 ETH. I would get my 0.99 ETh immediately, and then you would just wait a week, and then you would get your one eTH at the end, right?
01:13:11.008 - 01:13:13.382, Speaker C: Or your point one eth?
01:13:13.526 - 01:13:58.230, Speaker B: No, sorry, I see, I sacrifice my right to one. Instead, I get immediately you, as the buyer of the withdrawal, pay me zero point 99 immediately, and you get the full one at the end. So this is a technique that's available for optimistic roll ups to have instant withdrawals, but it does have capital costs. And importantly, it doesn't work with NFTs, because with NFTs, inherently there is nobody who has a second copy of the same NFT that they can collateralize. But for coins, it works amazingly. Complexity of technology. Optimistic roll ups are simpler generalizability.
01:13:58.230 - 01:14:50.162, Speaker B: Optimistic roll ups are easier to have, kind of full general purpose EVM computation for. And this is something that's really important, right. There already are ZK roll ups that are live, and Zk roll ups, like, there's ZK sync, there's loop ring, there's the diversify. And those can be application specific, but it's very hard to make them support much more general purpose computation. Whereas with an optimistic roll up, like, well, we already have one on main net that's basically running EVM code on L2, and then per transaction on chain gas costs. So this basically means are the on chain costs that you have to pay per transaction. So this is basically paying for the 16 bytes.
01:14:50.162 - 01:15:51.760, Speaker B: It turns out that there's technical reasons why, for certain types of transactions, you need more bytes in an optimistic roll up than in a ZK roll up. And then there's off chain computation costs, which are actually lower for optimistic roll ups than there are for ZK roll ups. So there's complicated trade offs. But my kind of opinion, summing it all up, is that I think in the short term, optimistic roll ups are likely to win for general purpose EVM computation. ZK roll ups are likely to win for simple payments and some very specific use cases. But I do think that on a five to ten year time horizon, ZK roll ups are going to be winning out in all use cases. So I think the fact that teams like optimism and arbitrum are doing optimistic roll ups today is perfectly fine, and I think it's completely the correct path in order to just get some kind of scaling out for Ethereum in 2021.
01:15:51.760 - 01:17:27.146, Speaker B: But there is going to come a time when ZK snark technology improves and zksnarks are capable of moving, actually verifying EVM computation. Now, expect to see demos of ZK snarks doing things like verifying solidity code this year. But just keep in mind that there's a big difference between a demo and a production implementation, right? Because once you have a demo, you have to security audit it, you have to debug it, you have to really make sure that the verifier is correct and those things are hard, right? I personally would much rather trust $10 million of my own money to an EVM optimistic roll up than to an EVM ZK roll up for at least the next couple of years. But in the long term, ZK roll ups I think are going to be everything. And so my advice to teams like optimism and arbitrum is that I think they should start kind of zkifying themselves fairly soon. It's not so urgent that people should lose interest in projects that are optimistic roll ups today, but I think projects that are optimistic roll ups today should have the attitude that they are not going to be optimistic roll ups forever and they should start putting together their strategies for ZK themselves. So then I talk kind of more technically about if I could cut in here.
01:17:27.168 - 01:17:48.850, Speaker C: Vitalik I would just like to clarify one thing between optimistic rollups and ZK roll ups. What would you say is the defining characteristic difference between optimistic and ZK roll ups that makes you long term belief in ZK rollups? What's the real separation between those two things that makes you optimistic about ZK rollups long term?
01:17:49.190 - 01:18:54.486, Speaker B: Sure. So one is just ZK roll ups have instant withdrawals, even and without any collateral requirements. Another is that ZTA roll ups do not have this kind of one of n online requirements in order for someone to be able to publish a fraud proof. And that's valuable because it opens the door for ZK roll ups to be able to go up and process things like tens of thousands of transactions per second, where in an optimistic roll up, once you start having that many transactions, then it starts becoming less obvious that there will always be enough honest nodes that are checking that all the computations are done correctly. Also the data efficiency. So I have a table a bit further below where I look at the mixer example, and it's one table further below. There it is.
01:18:54.486 - 01:19:48.950, Speaker B: Right, and the mixer only has a 77 x scalability gain and an optimistic roll up, but a 570 x scaling gain in a ZK roll up. And the reason why this is true is because ZK roll ups allow you to have less data on chain. Because in a ZK roll up you only need to have enough data on chain to update the state tree, whereas in an optimistic roll up you have to have enough data on chain to verify the full computation, which is a slightly larger amount of data. Now to be very clear. Right. I don't think that these advantages are decisive in 2021, and I think in 2021, optimistic roll ups and ZK roll ups are both totally fine. We're going to have these withdrawal markets, we're going to have ways for people to withdraw from things like optimism and arbitrum instantly.
01:19:48.950 - 01:20:34.710, Speaker B: And in 2021 and 2022. And even going a bit further, the fact that optimistic roll ups just rely on clean EVM verification, and they have surprisingly simple fraud proof verifiers, I think is a decisive advantage, as opposed to ZK roll ups, which needs to have just like this much larger and complicated compiler code to convert solidity or Viper or EVM into arithmetic representations. And there's just much more attack service for bugs in there. But over the longer time horizon, those issues will get resolved and the calculus is slowly going to shift toward the ZK side.
01:20:34.860 - 01:21:12.750, Speaker C: So I like to take a stab at trying to go through the history of this to lead into my next question. Ethereum L two scaling started with state channels, which were, and the great thing about state channels is that it's just between two parties. You can make any number of transactions without committing anything to the blockchain. And then to wrap up your day, you commit something to the blockchain, that state channel ends, and then you bundle up 10,000 plus transactions into just one little packet of data, submit it to the blockchain. That's great. That's great. For two parties, or just a low number of parties, plasma was an attempt to have one to many, or many to many type of interactions of various types.
01:21:12.750 - 01:22:11.730, Speaker C: And there are different constructions of plasma that did different things, but it ended up being weak because of this thing called this data availability problem, which in short, is that it's hard for Ethereum, the blockchain, to know about the plasma l two chains, and know about how to manage that without making assumptions and assumptions. We don't like assumptions in the world of cryptography. That's not how we play in the world of crypto economics. We like things to be secure. And then, so then that turned into the roll ups revolution of the optimistic and ZK flavor, where there was a compromise made, where we figured out we could actually just regularly submit some data to the Ethereum blockchain to solve that data availability problem. And so we aren't getting like millions of transactions per second. We are still generally bottlenecked, but the actual bottlenecks are actually still pretty wide, and there's lots of optimizations there that can make them even wider.
01:22:11.730 - 01:22:32.110, Speaker C: And that's kind of where we are today. How do we know that we are towards the end of this research and development process. How do we know in 2021 and 2022 we're not going to come up with this new scaling system? What indications or evidence do we have that we have approached the end of this research and development phase?
01:22:33.650 - 01:23:25.726, Speaker B: That's hard to tell for certain. There's no theorem that says that these are the only scaling mechanisms that exist and there are no others. But I think there are kind of heuristic arguments that suggest this one of them is just the Lindy argument, right? Like, we've had channels and plasma and roll ups and basically nothing else for something like four years now. Roll ups themselves, like I said, they were in their current form. They were kind of created in 2018 to 2019. But there was this much earlier thing of shadow chains that I published back in 2014 that kind of is a prelude to roll ups. So we've had a kind of long and growing time span within which we've known about these three techniques, and we've seen no others.
01:23:25.726 - 01:24:27.502, Speaker B: Another thing that arguments that you can make is this mathematical arguments that basically says if there are end users, how much data gets published on chain, not taking into account deposits and withdrawals and fraud, and you can classify them very easily, right? In a channel, the answer is zero. In a plasma, the answer is o of one. So just the one Merkel route, regardless of how many users there are. And in a roll up, it's o of n, right? So there's a bit of data per transaction. And so that basically covers the space. Right now, you might say, well, are there things between one and n? Are there things that are like square root or like logarithm or some weird thing in between. And I think my intuitive answer there is just probably not, because that just means that eventually you have less than one bit on chain per transaction, and how much can you actually do with that? But intuitively, it just feels like those three numbers, like zero, one, and n, just kind of COVID the whole range.
01:24:27.502 - 01:25:08.160, Speaker B: And you can tell how with increasing on chain load, you have increasing capability, right? Like plasma gives you increasing capability from channels. The particular thing being just the ability to send off chain to new users who have not yet been inducted into the system. And then going from one to n, you have this other gain of capability, which is being able to go general purpose. There is that kind of heuristic, intuitive reason to potentially believe that these three options just are the options out there, and that everything we're going to see from here is just like different permutations on that.
01:25:08.850 - 01:25:36.518, Speaker A: So I think roll ups are definitely very exciting. What's also exciting is we can begin using them now. Right? So this is no longer hypothetical, theoretical like loop ring has one in production. Synthetix just released their version on optimism. So it's going to be very exciting to see how both optimistic rollups and the ZK rollups play out. I had one other question for you, and then maybe we could move on to social recovery wallets. But just last question.
01:25:36.518 - 01:26:10.740, Speaker A: On roll ups, how does ETH two kind of, just to tie this out, how does the ETH two roadmap fit with the roll up roadmap? I understand that e two is going to provide a way to provide consensus on a sharded data layer, which is going to make more space, more sort of bandwidth, I guess, for roll ups in the future. What's that going to look like, and what's that going to do for Ethereum's holistic scalability story here?
01:26:11.830 - 01:27:12.610, Speaker B: Great question. It's definitely very important to kind of circle back into answer this one, basically. So we have this thing called the roll up centric roadmap, which basically says that in the short term we recognize that there is massive fee pressure, and roll ups are the only thing that can relieve the fee pressure no matter what we do. And at the same time we recognize that for sharding providing sharding of just data. So just having sharded blocks that just contain these blobs where you might have whatever data you want, but there's no kind of on chain processing of it is an easier problem to solve than sharded computation. And so if you take those two facts together, the thing that you realize is basically that, well, what do roll ups need? Roll ups need data. And what's the scalability limit of a roll up? The scalability element of roll up is basically, well, how much data space is there that the chain has a consensus on? And with the current Ethereum chain, that limit is somewhere around 500 block.
01:27:12.610 - 01:28:09.740, Speaker B: But with the sharded system, you basically have like 500 kb for each of these 64 blocks in every slot, right? So there's just going to be this much larger amount of space, and within that space you can use that to potentially go up to something like 100,000 transactions per second just with roll ups. Right. And I have some numbers. I definitely encourage people reading the post. It's also on Vitalik, CA, and I talk about some of the tricks that we use for data compression and some of the math that shows how many bytes you need for a transaction of different types and how much scaling gain you can get on a regular roll up or on a roll up on ETH one and then multiply that by another 64 to get the scaling gains for roll ups on ETH two.
01:28:10.910 - 01:28:25.230, Speaker A: And just to clarify here, Vitalik, so this sharded data layer, is this going to be available to use for roll ups before the ETH one and e two merger?
01:28:26.530 - 01:28:44.178, Speaker B: It can be. There is work that needs to be done for that to happen. Basically we need an ETH two light client inside of ETH one, and that technically requires some eips on ETh one to be done, which I think are in the pipeline, I believe, for soon after Berlin or something like that.
01:28:44.344 - 01:28:58.878, Speaker A: Got it. Cool. All right, well, excellent. This has been a fantastic article. So of course an incomplete guide to roll ups. I didn't feel like that was incomplete. What about you, David? I felt like that was a very complete guide to roll ups.
01:28:58.994 - 01:28:59.562, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:28:59.696 - 01:29:00.954, Speaker A: At least for me, maybe.
01:29:00.992 - 01:29:04.570, Speaker C: That's a good question. Vitalik, what would a complete guide to roll ups.
01:29:07.470 - 01:29:58.794, Speaker B: One thing I say is that the guide is already wrong. One of the tables, line four, general purpose EVM roll ups are already close to mainnet. Well, as of now, the optimism roll up already is on main net, at least for synthetics. So that's progress. And I think this is just evolving technology and people are going to come up with new and more clever tricks. I wrote this blog post with the goal of it being something that people can kind of go back to and just get their just primer on what the heck? Roll ups are even for years into the future. So I expect there to be more and more things that end up just inevitably not being part of the post, but that continue improving roll up users experience.
01:29:58.992 - 01:30:22.100, Speaker A: Well, excellent. Well, thank you for that guide. All right, let's flip to our third and last subject for today. This is all around the subject of social recovery wallets. So we were talking about scalability, I suppose, with roll ups. And a typical Ethereum user feels that pain when they pay for a $20 uniswap transaction. Right.
01:30:22.100 - 01:30:44.650, Speaker A: Another pain point that Ethereum users feel is around securing your private keys. And this is definitely a hindrance to mainstream adoption. I think a lot of crypto ends up in exchanges just because people are uncertain. They don't feel like they have the tools or the competency to secure their own crypto.
01:30:45.150 - 01:30:51.914, Speaker C: And of course is like a rite of passage coming into this industry, which is definitely something that we should have a band aid for.
01:30:52.112 - 01:31:36.234, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely. And of course not your keys, not your crypto, as our friend Andreas says. And certainly, if you want to become bankless and go bankless, you can't keep your private keys inside of a crypto exchange. So right now, best practice is we have things like metamask, which is an extension of the driver. If you want to be a bit more secure, you can use a hardware wallet. But, Vitalik, you're presenting kind of this maybe this third way, this idea of a social recovery wallet. So could you give us a quick synopsis on what a social recovery wallet is and why it's important? Where do you want to start with this one?
01:31:36.432 - 01:32:06.670, Speaker B: Sure. And I guess we can just start off with what the thing is. So if you scroll down to control f social recovery is better, then there's a diagram, a bit further download. There we go. Yeah. So basically, the idea is that a social recovery wallet is a smart contract wallet. So if you use a social recovery wallet, your account is a smart contract, and your assets would be in that smart contract.
01:32:06.670 - 01:32:59.910, Speaker B: And the smart contract has these rules that say that there is a signing key and that signing key can be used to approve transactions. And then you have this concept of guardians, right? And the idea is that there's a set of some number of guardians, at least three. I recommend even going up to five or seven, if you know enough crypto people. And of these guardians, a majority of them can cooperate to change the signing key of an account if you lose your signing key. So the goal of this is basically just account recovery, right? And account recovery is just something that everyone ends up needing from time to time, and it's something that lots of services really don't do well. Right. So if you lose your Google or account, then you have to go through customer service, and often it's even just very hard to recover your account.
01:32:59.910 - 01:33:58.562, Speaker B: And I've known people who are just never able to do that. And in the case of crypto, of course, if you just use a regular wallet, well, if you lose your password, you're screwed. And there's just so many examples of people who just lose access to their account and they end up being completely screwed, whether they lose it because they forget a password, or because they lose their computer and they just never had a backup anywhere, or because they reinstall their operating system and they forget to copy over the files that happen to contain some of their keys. There's just this kind of whole set of reasons. Their funds are on a paper wallet, but they forget the piece of paper. Their funds are on a hardware wallet, and something happens to that hardware wallet. There's just lots of reasons why you can lose your funds.
01:33:58.562 - 01:34:15.760, Speaker B: And so social recovery basically says, well, you can specify some set of guardians, and this could be institutions, this could be your friends or family, this could even be just other devices owned by yourself. And the majority of these guardians has the ability to basically reset your key.
01:34:16.610 - 01:34:19.194, Speaker A: So this is a pretty simple idea, quite honestly.
01:34:19.242 - 01:34:19.454, Speaker B: Right.
01:34:19.492 - 01:34:49.942, Speaker A: So problem that we're solving is custody of private keys is hard, and people can lose them. And if they lose them, it's a disaster. You lose your entire crypto. So solution is twofold. You have a smart contract based wallet, and then you have this squishy meat space idea of guardians. And people who have a Google account are probably used to this. There's a setting in your Gmail account where you can set your spouse or a friend's email address to recover your password.
01:34:50.006 - 01:34:50.234, Speaker B: Right.
01:34:50.272 - 01:35:03.118, Speaker A: This is a similar idea, only you're delegating that guardianship, possibly to some other private keys, and this could be friends and family, this could be other devices, that sort of thing.
01:35:03.204 - 01:35:13.614, Speaker B: This feels very squishy, though, really importantly, not one of one. It's m of n. Right. So that's a huge difference between, say, Gmail's recovery email feature, right.
01:35:13.652 - 01:35:23.310, Speaker A: So it would be a set of guardians that would then when they come together, their powers combined, they can restore your wallet.
01:35:23.470 - 01:36:16.280, Speaker B: So interestingly enough, WeChat already does this, right? If you just wants to log on to your account and you don't have a password or you don't have some other authentication, then you can create the account. And then what it does is it basically requires you to, it gives you some contacts. I believe it's something like that. It just automatically chooses some contacts that you frequently interact with, and it sends them a confirmation code. And they have to give you the confirmation code, or you have to give them the confirmation code and they have to type it in a chat with you. I forget it's one of those two. And so basically, if you can multiple of your frequent contacts type in these contribution codes, then you can access your account.
01:36:18.010 - 01:36:31.050, Speaker A: So two things I'd be worried about with this Vitalik. Right. The first is, okay, you said you're essentially putting your private keys inside of a smart contract wallet, right. And there have been smart contract.
01:36:32.430 - 01:36:41.754, Speaker B: Right. So this is basically saying instead of your private keys, controlling funds, the smart contract is controlling funds.
01:36:41.882 - 01:36:42.560, Speaker A: Right.
01:36:42.930 - 01:36:46.094, Speaker B: Ability to replace your private keys if you lose your private key.
01:36:46.132 - 01:37:18.342, Speaker A: I see, right. And that's an important distinction. However, there could be a bug in a smart contract wallet. There could be an issue with that smart contract wallet. It introduces some additional code complexity in the process. So that's the first question I'd have for you. How can we get comfortable around that? The second is it does, at first glance, feel kind of squishy to start trusting meat space social relationships with this sort of thing.
01:37:18.342 - 01:37:36.270, Speaker A: Like people are probably thinking as they're hearing you talk. Okay, who are the five to seven people in my life that I would actually trust with something like this? And how much do I actually trust those relationships? Can you talk about both of those, I guess, security vectors?
01:37:37.650 - 01:38:07.602, Speaker B: Right. So good. Important question. So I think as far as security of smart contract wallets goes, one important thing to keep in mind is that I think that the security of the code needed to implement this recovery mechanism is very small. Right. It's maybe even just something like ten lines of code. And the reason is that you can already abstract out the multi sig part into a separate mechanism.
01:38:07.602 - 01:38:48.722, Speaker B: Right. And we've already had multisig wallets that work for years. There's the multisig wallet that stores the $600 million, or whatever it is, of the Ethereum foundation's money. There's the more recent gnosis safe wallet that stores lots of projects money, and it's been formally verified and audited many times. So that's been increasingly trusted by the community. And so the majority of the code is something that you can just delegate to a multi sig wallet, and that's already been tested. And then the rest of it, it is something that would need to be written, and it is something that would need to be audited and verified.
01:38:48.722 - 01:39:50.278, Speaker B: But it is a relatively small kind of 30 line of code job, relatively speaking, and not some really complicated thing. So that's one thing to answer. The other thing to keep in mind is that I'll talk about this a bit further down, but realistically, all of this stuff is going to happen inside of roll ups, and I can even expect a roll up project to just incorporate some form of multisig or social recovery wallet just natively. And I think they should do that. I think the move to roll ups is a great time to start moving people onto these more secure paradigms. So that's one answer. And then in terms of the question of do you trust your social relations, I have a paragraph a bit further down, right, where I basically say that there's this really nice security thing that you can do, which is that your guardians, number one, they don't have to be publicly known.
01:39:50.278 - 01:41:21.960, Speaker B: And number two, they don't even need to know each other's identities, right? So you, for example, could use as your guardians, like your mom, if you work for a company, your boss, then some institution, some friend from high school, and you want to use guardians from different social circles that you have, right? You want to have guardians that ideally do not even know each, or at the very least, don't closely talk to each other. And basically the reason why this can be accomplished, right, is because either you don't need to publish guardians addresses on chain until you actually do a recovery, or even more securely, you can just have each guardian generate a new single purpose address that they would use for each wallet that they're guarding. I mentioned it's recommended to choose a diverse collection of guardians from different social circles. One institutional guardian would be nice, though there are privacy reasons why you might not want to do that either. And this basically would just make it very hard for these different guardians to like for you. Orion, if you become a guardian for David, then how the hell would you even start figuring out who of David's other contacts you're going to collude with to steal all this money?
01:41:23.290 - 01:41:27.910, Speaker A: That's a good question. I'm thinking about that now, Vitalik, who indeed?
01:41:28.810 - 01:41:44.960, Speaker B: Question one, do you even know? And question two, once you start poking around and asking what's the probability that you're going to get up to four or seven before one of these people rats you out to David? And David just like switches over his guardians to someone else and cuts off contact with you.
01:41:45.490 - 01:42:01.746, Speaker A: Yeah, that's probably pretty accurate. And considering David and I have never met in real life, though, we have spent hours upon hours in digital life together, means I don't actually know some of his IRL relationships and friends and.
01:42:01.768 - 01:42:03.860, Speaker C: Family, and it's going to stay that way.
01:42:07.670 - 01:42:08.690, Speaker B: Yeah, well.
01:42:08.760 - 01:42:13.554, Speaker A: So, Vitalik, do you think this kind of solves private key management, or this could solve private key management?
01:42:13.602 - 01:42:26.506, Speaker B: Basically, I think it's the best solution that we have right now. I think it would be great for the ecosystem if we can make a kind of strong push toward implementing this kind of technology.
01:42:26.688 - 01:42:59.634, Speaker A: And we do have some of this today with Argent is one definitely bankless listeners will be familiar with. Loop ring you mentioned is another. So there are attempts with it right now. And you mentioned, I think earlier in our discussion that you tried to do a recovery with Argent just to sort of test that out. And it was pretty expensive. There's like a $50 gas fee associated with it. So maybe we could just tie this off with what you're talking about earlier, is migration to L2, and roll ups can kind of solve the remaining challenges.
01:42:59.634 - 01:43:26.350, Speaker A: So you said some roll up solutions might even be able to have to ship basically a social recovery wallet right out of the box, which be super cool. It sounds like roll ups have the capacity to innovate faster and try new things, that the main chain really doesn't have that capability. But what did you have in mind about this intersection of synergy between L2 and social recovery wallets?
01:43:27.090 - 01:43:47.846, Speaker B: Yes. So there's, I think, a couple of problems that roll ups solve at the same time. So one of them is that Ethereum has this very subtle technical weakness, which is the fact that only externally owned accounts can initiate transactions. And that was just.
01:43:47.948 - 01:43:51.430, Speaker C: Sorry, could you define externally owned accounts for our listeners?
01:43:51.930 - 01:43:59.398, Speaker B: Yes. It is an account which is controlled by a private key. If an account that's not an externally owned account is a smart contract.
01:43:59.494 - 01:44:06.150, Speaker C: So there's only two types of accounts. There's accounts that addresses with private keys, and then there are addresses that are smart contracts.
01:44:06.310 - 01:44:22.670, Speaker B: Correct. Cool. And only eoas can initiate transactions. There's no ways to initiate a transaction from a smart contract. So this creates problems. Right. And actually, have either of you used the tornado cash before?
01:44:22.820 - 01:44:24.126, Speaker C: I have, yes.
01:44:24.308 - 01:45:13.226, Speaker B: Okay, so you remember how when you do a withdrawal from tornado cash, you have to select a relayer and you're not signing a transaction, you're like, signing a message, or actually, I think you're not even signing the message. You're just, like, providing the note and someone else sends the transaction. Right. So the reason why that happens is because what's happening in a tornado cash flow is that you're trying to withdraw money in zero knowledge to a completely new address. And so you do not already have funds in that address, so you have no way of paying the transaction fees from an EOA, and the money you're trying to withdraw is coming from a contract. And so the transaction has to start from some EOA, and that EOA has to be provided by a third party. And the relayer is that third party.
01:45:13.226 - 01:45:47.820, Speaker B: They just do this as a service in exchange for a fee. Now, this is inefficient, and it added significant complexity to tornado cash, and it also adds significant complexity to smart contract wallets. I think it might be the biggest ux barrier that smart contract wallets have, and a big reason we don't have more of them is like, they basically run their own relayer. Right, and loop ring. Well, they're a roll up. So they're kind of part of the solution here. And I'm definitely hoping that Argenta is going to start doing things with roll up soon.
01:45:47.820 - 01:46:36.426, Speaker B: But if you have any of these wallets, that's a smart contract that's not on L2, then either you need a relayer or you need this kind of somewhat bulky scheme where you need an account that has most of your assets and then an account that has the rest of your assets to pay fees. And that account has to have quite a bit of eth just in case transaction fees get very high. And so it just gets annoying. So there's two ways of solving this problem. One of them is a kind of decentralized general purpose relayer network, and the gas station network is doing a great job of this. But the other thing is that you can just move to roll ups, and roll ups can just have better support for just allowing transactions to start from smart contracts directly. So that's the first problem.
01:46:36.426 - 01:47:24.460, Speaker B: And then the second problem is the high transaction fees. Right? Like, you can't have roll up recoveries cost $50. But in a L2 system, if everything is done inside of a L2, recoveries could potentially only cost a few cents. In general, I think the move to L2 is this great opportunity to just do lots of things in a way that's just much better than what we've been doing before. Smart contracts by default are a great example of this optimism. Have already kind of taken some steps in this direction, which is nice. I think every account in optimism is, by default a simple smart contract wallet that the user, if they want to, can replace with a different one.
01:47:24.460 - 01:47:35.520, Speaker B: Yeah, there's an excellent synergy between lawyer twos and better security.
01:47:37.490 - 01:47:38.574, Speaker C: Sorry, go ahead.
01:47:38.692 - 01:47:46.130, Speaker B: I just wanted to say I do also want to, at some point, circle back to kind of the relationship between social recovery and crypto values.
01:47:47.270 - 01:48:02.070, Speaker C: Maybe that's where we can tie this conversation off. But before we get there, I do want to ask, does that mean that you believe that the trend for the average individual who engages with Ethereum is going to move towards L2 smart contract wallets?
01:48:03.050 - 01:48:03.800, Speaker B: Yes.
01:48:04.250 - 01:48:23.518, Speaker C: Interesting. And people will just perhaps be able to execute l one transactions from their L2 smart contract wallet by proxy. So they'll make a transaction with their smart contract wallet. And if they want something to happen on chain on the Ethereum l one, it can be initiated from that point. Interesting.
01:48:23.604 - 01:49:16.062, Speaker B: Right, well, so we have to distinguish between layer one smart contract wallets that are on layer one versus smart contract wallets that are inside roll ups, right? So I think smart contract wallets are better either way, but they're definitely much better inside roll ups. And I definitely expect more and more of people to be kind of, over time, to move toward being inside roll ups natively. So just being able to do lots of things and just do all of the ethereuming that they want to do just by floating between optimism and arbitram and Zksync and loop ring. And I think we're going to have better and better techniques for moving between those systems without having to hop onto the main chain first. And that will also reduce transaction fees massively, which will give an opportunity for this social recovery stuff to happen better.
01:49:16.196 - 01:49:27.540, Speaker A: David, our kids may not even use the main chain. That's what Vitalik is saying, right? Like they might live their whole dfI ethereum life on a L2 chain completely.
01:49:29.190 - 01:50:12.720, Speaker C: Well, that kind of begs the question, say I have a smart contract wallet on the l two, and I'm there because of just all the Ux benefits that it provides me. And I want to swap tokens for one token for another because of whatever reasons that people do that. And the uniswap l one is perhaps not necessary, because on loop ring there is another amm that because perhaps I'm on the loop ring and l two, I just use that exchange feature there instead. So then at that point, if all the economic activity is kind of put into l two s, what does the l one do? What kind of economic activity would you expect to see on the main ethereum l one, if that becomes the case?
01:50:13.570 - 01:50:45.690, Speaker B: In the short to medium term, I expect high value users to stay on l one just because they can afford to pay the fees. And the fees are a lower cost than the risk that people perceive of l two is breaking. But in the longer term, the risk of l two is breaking is going to subside. And in which case, l ones are mainly going to consist of L2 publishing these batches and proofs, and users moving between roll ups.
01:50:46.030 - 01:51:46.218, Speaker C: In some cases, that's extremely interesting. That kind of makes my head turn to the whole scaling metaphor of Xbox games, where people, or Xbox games, when the Xbox first came out, were like kind of, the graphics were rudimentary, the very basic. But then Xbox games towards the end of the Xbox lifecycle, and I'm specifically talking about the Xbox 360 here, like the big Xbox that took off the most amount of time, games towards the end of the Xbox 360 lifestyle were far more efficient, far more graphically beautiful and complex and rich. But yet it was the same hardware. It was the same hardware all through and through. And that seems to be kind of how what you are alluding to with the Ethereum l one, over time, is that we are actually just making better use of the same computational capacity that Ethereum offers. Is that kind of where you're getting at? And then my other question is, Ethereum, of course, is a place of legos.
01:51:46.218 - 01:52:05.750, Speaker C: We have different things, different applications that we can plug into each other. What we're talking about here is the Lego between a smart contract wall and an l two, talking about the efficiencies and UX benefits that we get there. What about the Lego of decentralized identity? How does the combination of decentralized identity and smart contract wallets, how do those things interact?
01:52:07.530 - 01:52:54.462, Speaker B: I guess, good question. I've talked about identity in a lot of different contexts. I guess the question is there's different kinds of identity, right? Like there's identity of you just authenticating yourself as being the same actor who did some other interaction previously, which is just like maintaining a persistent account. There's identity as in proving things about who you are in the real world. There is identity as in kind of the unique human problem, creating accounts that each person can only have one of. And they are kind of different primitives that have somewhat different properties. So I view social recovery wallets as being a big step forward for the first kind of identity.
01:52:54.462 - 01:54:29.770, Speaker B: This kind of maintaining some kind of persistent identity thing that you can represent yourself to as to services and other people. And as I mentioned before, this is something that could potentially end up kind of going, even being used for just centralized web two services, right? Like right now, if you log into many services, a lot of the time you're logging in with Google or you're logging in with Twitter or logging in with Facebook, and you're basically using an identity that's controlled by Google or Twitter or Facebook as the mechanism by which you interact with all of these services. But here, the thing that I think could eventually happen is people using blockchain social recovery wallets or wallets with some kind of other recovery mechanism of their choice as that identity. Ultimately, if we can create something that's as secure in terms of antitheft and anti loss properties as centralized services provide, which I think we can, because I think people overrate how good these centralized services are anyway, then we can create something that makes sense for even people to use to just interact with all of these other things too, I guess. Yes, this stuff is a strong path towards solving at least one of the problems that we put in the identity bucket.
01:54:29.930 - 01:54:56.250, Speaker A: So, Vitalik, thanks so much for guiding us through social recovery. Let's discussion with this critique, maybe address the person who's thinking, well, you just introduced something that I thought blockchain was going to remove, this idea of trusting people. Right now we're back to trusting people again, Vitalik, that feels like a betrayal. What's your response to that critique?
01:54:57.470 - 01:56:07.614, Speaker B: Right. So I think this kind of comes, really ties into kind of this difference in perspectives about what crypto is for and the kind of ideology and vision that different projects have. And I've always interpreted Ethereum as not being about this kind of mountain man. I'm going to do everything myself mentality. It's more about this idea that we're going to use cryptography and economic building blocks like ETH as the monetary layer and general purpose code and the ability to write these contracts that can control things. And these tools are basically going to empower people and give them choice in creating mechanisms, right? And they can empower people to give choice in whom to trust, also creating constrained forms of trust that basically say, I trust you to do some things, but I don't trust you to do everything. And this is something that I think we've been seeing in Ethereum more broadly.
01:56:07.614 - 01:57:32.690, Speaker B: And it's like this big kind of design philosophy, right? That it's not about trying to eliminate trust completely. It's about basically saying, well, we have these technological tools and we can create systems that have these much lower levels of trust, and we're going to create, but where trust is still this important ingredient, but we just use it in ways that are kind of much more clever. And we can also just, one, minimize it. Two, try to try to use it more intelligently, and three, as much as possible, give people a choice of basically what trade offs they take. This is something that Ethereum is doing on the blockchain layer as well, right? There's this discussion around proof of stake and weak subjectivity and how proof of stake makes this trade off, that if you're logging onto the network for the first time, or if you've been online for a very long number of months, then you do have to kind of get your view of which chain to follow from somewhere. But the thing that you get in exchange for this is just this vastly more efficient blockchain with a much less resource consumption. And I think here at the same time, it's also this very similar principle.
01:57:32.690 - 01:57:56.520, Speaker B: It's basically saying that we're going to be moderate but we're also going to say that this is this playground for just building different ways for people to interact with each other. And so let's just actually use it and let's just build really interesting things with it.
01:57:57.530 - 01:59:01.880, Speaker C: Well, Vitalk, I want to thank you for being so generous with your time and coming on the program and talking about all these various subjects with us. I know that historically in the past, you would put out a blog post and then people would kind of become woke to it like one or two years later as, oh, like we finally integrated what Vitalik was talking about two years ago. And I think that I see that there is actually a faster iteration cycle between some of the things that are coming out on your blogs and some of the development that we're actually seeing out in the world of ethereum and the greater world of crypto. I hope that actually some of these conversations that we're putting out on the bankless program are helping with speeding up that iteration cycle. But anyways, I do totally agree with you that the future of 2020 and maybe that the future of 2021 and beyond is very dominant in the world of very strong, sexy ux of smart contract wallets, as well as the integration of the ease of l two s and all the other things that you have written on your blog post. So thank you for coming on and sharing those ideas with us.
01:59:02.330 - 01:59:03.720, Speaker B: Happy to be here.
01:59:04.330 - 01:59:15.786, Speaker A: All right, guys, as always, want to end with this. None of this was financial advice. Of course. E is risky. So is Defi. So is crypto. You could lose what you put in, but we are headed west.
01:59:15.786 - 01:59:22.060, Speaker A: This is the frontier. It's not for everyone. But we're glad you're with us on the bankless journey. Thanks a lot.
