00:00:00.410 - 00:00:20.714, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. I'm Utam Singh. And in this video, I'm going to share some resources to learn web3 and blockchain development. So it's been a long time. I was busy with some college stuff and my internship, so I wasn't able to create some videos. But still a lot of people reached out to me to share web3 and blockchain resources. Like to learn web3 and blockchain development from scratch.
00:00:20.714 - 00:01:14.926, Speaker A: So here I am and I will be sharing some great resources and one of the best resource and free resources to learn web3 and blockchain development from scratch. But before starting this video, I have two things, two really important things to share with you guys. Right? So the first thing is that right now there is a lot of hype among people. There are some so called influencers who are creating a hype on Twitter and on LinkedIn that if you learn web3 and blockchain, you are going to get a salary of or one hundred and fifty K dollars. But trust me, guys, if you're going to learn web3 and blockchain for that, just for that, I'm pretty sure that 95% of you will not get it. And at the end, if you're not going to get that salary, you are going to get disheartened. So please, please learn it if you have interest, if you really want to contribute to this big revolution, like building Internet, again, from the scratch.
00:01:14.926 - 00:01:40.122, Speaker A: So if you really want to contribute, if you really want to. I think that money is an important factor. Yes, it's an high paying job and you can learn for that, but just don't learn it for that. And at the end, if you're not going to get it, you will be disheartened. So I really don't want you guys to be disheartened. So the second thing I really want to talk to you guys is about the blockchain development and blockchain engineer part. People think that blockchain engineer and blockchain development are same.
00:01:40.122 - 00:02:00.654, Speaker A: No, this is not the case. So understand this. Building on blockchain is a different thing. Building blockchain is a different. Let me take an example. Right now. In web two, we create our apps, we create our application and we deploy it on AWS, right? So one part is that you are building that application and the other part is the AWS.
00:02:00.654 - 00:02:38.462, Speaker A: The AWS architecture, right? That is a different thing. So there are AWS engineers who are going to handle that AWS architecture where your apps are going to be deployed. Right. Similarly, blockchain engineers are those person who takes care of the blockchain, who takes care of that chain. On where you will be deploying your Dapps Daps are decentralized applications. So in web3 you will be building those decentralized application and those decentralized applications will be deployed on the blockchain. So blockchain engineers are those guys that take care of that chain, right? So where you are building on that, right? So you are building on blockchain and these engineers take care of the blockchain thing, like how the blockchain is running.
00:02:38.462 - 00:03:19.738, Speaker A: If there is an error, there are a lot of other things in the blockchain that needs to be taken care of, right? So these blockchain engineers do that stuff and take care of the chain. Like if the chain is running or not, what if the chain is down and there are a lot of other stuff that they need to take care of. So this is one thing. And the other thing is the blockchain development, which is creating the depth, right? So you will be creating some depth based on which chain you use, right? So there are chains like Ethereum, Polygon, Solana. So you can choose one of the chain, whichever you like. And there will be some specific languages for the particular chain, like on the Ethereum and Polygon you can use solidity. And for the Solana, you need to learn rust, right.
00:03:19.738 - 00:03:50.146, Speaker A: Once you know these languages, you will be creating depths based on these languages. And then your depths are going to be deployed on these chains, right. As a blockchain developer or as a web3 developer, your job is to create those apps and these depths will be deployed on the blockchain. Right? So this is the major difference, like the basic difference between blockchain development and blockchain engineering thing. So be clear right? Now, don't get into the hype. Try to understand things. 90% of the people will not help you to get a job.
00:03:50.146 - 00:04:19.386, Speaker A: It's up to you. If your basics are clear, if everything is clear, you are going to get a high paid job. And let's not waste more of our time and let's get started with our video. But before that, subscribe to the channel right now and also hit the Bell icon. So whenever I upload a new video, you will get a notification and connect with me on LinkedIn or Twitter and share about this video and share about this advice on Twitter, on LinkedIn and tag me. Trust me, I would love to see it. Now let me share some free amazing blockchain and web3 resources.
00:04:19.386 - 00:04:51.786, Speaker A: Okay, so I will be visiting all these resources and website line by line. So let's visit and let's see what are these websites and resources? Are all these links to all these websites are in the description of this video. And also I've created some other videos like where to find blockchain and web3 jobs. So first you started to learn from these resources. You can find jobs and internships from those platforms. I've created a separate video for I've also provided the link to that video in the description and you can also find a link to my Twitter and LinkedIn. So if you have any doubts, feel free to Dm me.
00:04:51.786 - 00:05:13.998, Speaker A: I would love to solve your doubts. I would love to help. Right. So the first website is buildspace. So this is a great website where you can learn while building, right? So this is a great website. You can see like the build space escalates your builder journey into the web3. So whether you are starting out a seasoned transition from web two or if you're a beginner or if you are an expert as well, they have separate projects for you guys.
00:05:13.998 - 00:05:39.974, Speaker A: So if you want to join, you can click here on a startup project and you will be redirected to all those projects that they have. They also have an amazing discord server. All these people are there to help you. You can create and you can get a community support. There are step by step videos. There will be a kickoff session as well, right. And also there will be different resources to build on different chains, like on Ethereum, on Polygon, on Solana, right? So you can choose whatever chain you want and you can build on it.
00:05:39.974 - 00:06:01.658, Speaker A: Right. You can see the projects introduction to it, introduction to Solana ship Solana NFT building on Polygon, ens and all those things like Abox is coming soon, right? And this is an amazing resource. So you should definitely get started with it and you should definitely join their community. And there is some working opportunity as well. So you can check that out as well. The other platform is learn web3 IO. So this is learn web3 dow.
00:06:01.658 - 00:06:18.914, Speaker A: It is very famous on Twitter and people are learning from it. So they have like a proper track. So if you're a freshman, like if you are just starting, so there is a freshman track for you. There are some content as well. There is some video content as well. Both are there. So if you are a freshman who doesn't know anything about blockchain and web3, you can choose the freshman track.
00:06:18.914 - 00:06:49.150, Speaker A: They have good amount of content, good amount of theory. And I truly believe that theory is really important because right now people don't really understand what's going on in the back end side. So they have good theory where you will understand what's going on. Like when you are building, you know, you're understanding those stuff. So you can start with the freshman and then you can choose the Sofomor Junior and the senior track. So if you have some knowledge about web3 and blockchain, you can choose the Sofomor track, junior track and senior tracks. They also help you learn solidity, language, right? So they also provide at the end, build space and learn web3.
00:06:49.150 - 00:07:21.110, Speaker A: They also provide NFT for you guys so that NFT will be approved, that you have built that project, that particular project and you participated in it, right? And yeah, learn by doing. This is a great platform and you can see all those tracks and also they again have good community on Discord and on Twitter. They are really helpful. I knew a few of them, few of those guys who are in there, they are just amazing and really helpful. So you can visit their YouTube channel as well. And you will provide, you will see all those links here as well. Whenever you will be learning, you will be seeing the links to their YouTube videos and tutorials as well.
00:07:21.110 - 00:07:52.466, Speaker A: The other resources is web3 university. So thousands of people are learning from this university as well. If you are a student, basically this is a student becoming web3 developer our community. So if you want to get started with the web3 development side, there will be, as you can see here, sign up to get a five day track, right? So there will be a five day track where you can build your project. So this is the first project that you will be seeing how to build your first NFT. And the contributing partners are amazing, like Alchemy, Polygon and all those things, like even Z Optimus. These are some great organizations that are behind it.
00:07:52.466 - 00:08:24.862, Speaker A: And again, they have some proper tracks. Create your first smart contract, how to build your first NFDs and I will suggest this website and this particular resource is for people who have already somewhat knowledge about web3 and blockchain. So if you are an example, like if you are totally a builder or if you're a totally beginner, I don't think so, you should choose it. But if you have little knowledge about it and if you have built something, if you little bit of solidity, then you can choose this platform. And this will be a medium level platform. Now the next platform is crypto zombies. So this is an amazing product.
00:08:24.862 - 00:09:11.866, Speaker A: Even I learned through this and this is one of the oldest and one of the best to learn solidity and to create some blockchain depths, right? So in crypto zombie what will happen is that you will be playing a game and while playing a game you will be learning, right? So this is really amazing platform and this is very interactive school and there is also different levels here as well. So you can build a zombie army in this. You will be playing a game where you will be building a zombie army and you will learn all the concepts of solidity. And there are different tracks as well here. So you can just click here, get started, it's free. And whenever you click here, there will be different courses so costly you will have to log in through that. And as you can see, there will be a different curriculum like making the zombie factory zombie, attack their victims and all those things.
00:09:11.866 - 00:09:48.566, Speaker A: So once you complete it, you will see there like they're 100% completed, will be shown and you will also get a crypto like zombie, right? So there are different tracks as well. Like if you want to learn about chain link, if you to learn to learn about advanced solidity and beyond ethereum and all those things. So this is a really great platform if you want to learn web3 and you want to learn solidity from scratch by playing a game, right, the next resources is use web3 XYZ courses. So this website is amazing. Like there will be some books, jobs, code, challenges, guides and everything will be there about web3. So this is an amazing website. So here you can also find some courses like d five, mock Academy, encode club, boot camps and all those things will be there.
00:09:48.566 - 00:10:35.254, Speaker A: Like Pointer GG is also a great website. So all those resources will be mentioned here. So you can learn and you can visit this website and you will be redirected to all those courses and all those things available. So this is also a great resource where you can find where to learn it or if you want to learn a specific thing like about just defi development, if you want to go into gaming development. So there are different resources here which you can go to and yeah, this is some great resources available. The next website is Polygon Academy, right? So Polygon has created their own academy where you can learn and you can build by learning solidity and deploying apps on Polygon, building on Polygon and their second version of Polygon Academy is coming soon. And trust me, this website, like the Polygon Academy second version is going to be the ultimate, ultimate course that you need to learn.
00:10:35.254 - 00:11:05.406, Speaker A: So you just go to that Polygon Academy 2.0, the updated version and there will be an amazing things over there that you can learn from still, we have the Polygon Academy 1.0 version where you can just go and we can learn about this stuff. And at the end, if you complete their particular course or the particular thing, then you will be getting an NFT for a particular track, right? So stay tuned for Polygon Academy 2.0. And you can also start with Polygon Academy version right now. The next is questbook. So Questbook has also an amazing community right now in the web3 space.
00:11:05.406 - 00:11:51.818, Speaker A: So they also have some tracks like build on Ethereum, build on Polygon, build on near as well, and also build on Polygon as well. So if you want to choose, you can choose any of the chains. But yeah, one thing is that if you're building on Polygon, the thing is that you don't need to learn something extra or any other tool extra like what you are building, what you are, the tools you're using to build on Ethereum, you will use the same tool to build on Polygon, right? So you don't need to learn two different sources. But there is a case, like if you are building a solana, you need to learn a different language, right? If you're building on near, you need to learn a different language. There will be different tools. But on Ethereum and Polygon, all those tools are same, right? So yeah, they have amazing partners like Polygon, Solana, Ethereum, near. So you can go there and you can earn and also you can build apps, right? The other platform is academy Morales.
00:11:51.818 - 00:12:29.994, Speaker A: So Morales Web three is basically an app to help you to get started with. So Morales Web three is basically a tool which helps you to not to interact with your back end. Like to save you from the. So Morales web3 is an app or it is a tool which helps you to not to directly interact with or not to directly deal with the back end, the tough back end infrastructure and all those things. You don't need to take care of that. And Morales will help you to build or to help you. And Morales will help you to handle that tough backend part, right? So they have proper Morales Academy where you can go and you can learn about it.
00:12:29.994 - 00:12:59.106, Speaker A: And I guess some of their courses are paid, but they also have a YouTube channel. There are some amazing courses as well. They have. So you can visit this video session and you can see that they have some web3, Twitter, angry web3 words. Like all these things are there. So if you want to learn about it, they teach it from a scan. They also have a particular solidity playlist, right? So you can learn from that as well, right? The other thing is the other platform is encode club.
00:12:59.106 - 00:13:30.142, Speaker A: So encode club is also a really amazing community where you can learn from and they also provide hiring things as well. They also help in hiring and get funding as well. So you can get learning, get building and get hired or also get funding if you want to work on your own project, if you want to get a bounty as well, right? So they also have different tracks as well. And they also have programs like ambassador program and all those things. So you can join their club and you can contribute to it. And if you want to learn, you can learn as well. They have bounties programs, they have boot camps as well.
00:13:30.142 - 00:14:01.574, Speaker A: They have different things as well. So this is an amazing community where you can learn as well. And the other platform is odysseydao.com. So Odyssey Dow is also a kind of a Dow which is onboarding like 1 million people to web3. If you want to get started, there is a twelve days of web3 email that you will be getting. So once you subscribe to their newsletter or once you subscribe to their provide your email address here, you will be getting email with all those resources and all those things like they have resources. Some amazing sponsors as well, like Polygon Third, Web three, Phantom and Ave.
00:14:01.574 - 00:14:27.546, Speaker A: These are some amazing web3 organizations right now. You can see their latest articles as well. They have blogs and then you can see the learning paths. These are also tracks. Like if you are new to it, if you're new to web3, the introduction to web3, NFTs, DFI and you can also see view all parts. And there are some amazing people in this odyssey Dow, like Jason Shaw, he's one of the major product managers alchemy. He's very active in the web3 community.
00:14:27.546 - 00:15:00.234, Speaker A: Other than that, they have their own values and all those things are amazing. Like they also have a great community so you can join it. So yeah, this is all for this video and these are all the resources that are present right now. Definitely. There are also some other resources that you can learn. And if you know any of the resources, feel free to provide those links like those resources in the comments below so other people can learn from it. And if you have used those resources and if you have learned from that, please provide that resources in the comment section and I will add it to the description of this video so other people can get help from that.
00:15:00.234 - 00:15:25.620, Speaker A: And yeah, connect with me on Twitter and on LinkedIn. Share this video share this video on Twitter or LinkedIn and let people know that these are the resources from where you can learn from it and share it with your family and friends and help them to get started with web3. So subscribe to the channel right now and also hit the bell icon and also let me know in the comment section like what kind of videos you guys want. So till then, take care and bye bye. You off.
