00:00:00.090 - 00:00:25.640, Speaker A: For our next talk. And I'm super excited for this one. Here, we're going to be learning about what the whole layer two spectrum looks like and especially kind of from the perspective of polygon, previously known as matic. And we have Sandeep and Mihalo telling us about this from their end. So both of them are here. I'll let them turn their videos on and kick us off, and I'll let them take over from here. So welcome Sandeep, and welcome, Mihalo Now.
00:00:26.330 - 00:00:30.854, Speaker B: Thanks, Karthik. Thanks for having us here.
00:00:30.892 - 00:01:52.320, Speaker C: And, yeah, like, amazing work, as always, by thanks for giving us this opportunity also to talk in general about the layer two spectrum. So we wanted to, with this presentation, give a larger flavor of something that we these days call as Ethereum Scaling Techniques because there's a lot of information that gets missed in the semantics. So at the very last stage, I also asked my fellow co founder, Mihalio Also, so hopefully we'll be able to give you a decent flavor of what all is there. When we talk about Ethereum Scaling techniques, we'll get have okay, I see I have screen sharing, right? So this is not a presentation or anything. I have basically very simple kind of few notes. Actually, you can say, these are my notes, basically, I prepared just for this presentation. So it's a very simple thing at a very simple level.
00:01:52.320 - 00:02:53.086, Speaker C: The goal for all of us is Ethereum Scaling, right? So at the end, there are various different kind of techniques. And I've also tried to create kind of a spectrum in some form where you can actually see what all mechanisms are possible and then just kind of touch base more on this layer two semantics also and what exactly constitutes a layer two and then what might not be layer two, but then still is working towards, let's say, Ethereum Scaling technique. Like, we'll talk about some examples also on that sense. But first of all, I want to talk about two key things here. And let me see if I have that pointer here. So the two main thing let me start from here. When we talk about Ethereum Scaling techniques, there can be a lot of different flavors.
00:02:53.086 - 00:03:39.630, Speaker C: There can be side chains, which are standalone chains. There can be a different flavor called commit chains, which commit some proofs to the main chain, ethereum main chain. Then there are validum kind of solutions. And then there are kind of layer two which can be pure layer two kind of solutions. Let's first start from what constitutes a layer two, right, where we can kind of see so two key parameters over there are first is like dispute resolution, where you can even also see my kind of cursor. And then the other thing is the data availability. So here we have mentioned that the data availability is basically whether it's an on chain, whether it's an off chain.
00:03:39.630 - 00:04:59.814, Speaker C: And dispute resolution is what kind of dispute resolution mechanism you are using in case the off chain. Let's take a step back. Like what exactly is layer two or scaling technique, how we are trying to scale Ethereum, we are trying to do some of these computations off chain, right? So that Ethereum main chain doesn't have to have so much of computation, it has limited kind of bandwidth in that sense. So how do we do that? So these two things, dispute resolution and data availability. So when you're doing this computation off chain, you need to make sure that if it's a pure layer two, which is completely dependent on Ethereum, you need to see that where exactly whatever transactions are happening on the off. Chain where the data is being kept and how the dispute resolution will happen in case there is some sort of fraud or some sort of inconsistency in the off chain kind of computation. So these two things get very important over there that whether the data, whatever you are computing on the layer two, whether the data is on data is available on Ethereum or the data is not available directly on Ethereum layer and then how are you going to solve the dispute.
00:04:59.814 - 00:06:21.538, Speaker C: So primarily we have two main categories over there. One is, as I said, on chain and off chain data and then in dispute resolution, whether you have validity proofs or whether you have fraud proofs to kind of resolve for, let's say if there's a dispute arises, whether you're using fraud proof. That the difference between validity proof and fraud proof is so fraud proof is you can already see by the name that if some fraud has happened then you can prove that fraud on chain of using a smart contract. Where you provide some sort of information or a challenge, and then it can be an interactive fraud proof or it can be a single interaction fraud proof and things like that. And a validity proof is more like when somebody is trying to exit from the layer two and then it checks for the validity of that exit right at the time of the exiting right. So based on that, you can see there are primarily three, four kind of mechanisms. So when you have the on chain data and you are using validity proof, they are called ZK roll ups.
00:06:21.538 - 00:07:12.434, Speaker C: When you have on chain data and you are using fraud proof for your dispute resolution it is called optimistic roll ups. Similarly, when you have off chain data and it's a validity proof, then it is called validum. And good example of validum can be for this thing, let's say Starquare's solution. Recently Matterloy also announced their ZK porter. So I think that will also fall under the validom category because they are talking about a data availability solution on the outside and the dispute resolution will be on Ethereum main chain. These are the thing. And then when you have the off chain data and then you are using fraud proof, that category of solution is called plasma and then you have some hybrid kind of categories also like volition and optimistic volition.
00:07:12.434 - 00:07:27.434, Speaker C: These are more evolving techniques. So largely this is the spectrum Mihailo. If you want to add anything more to this particular spectrum, this thing, or explain more about the hybrid side of things, feel free to chime in. Otherwise I'll kind of move to the.
00:07:27.472 - 00:08:23.898, Speaker B: Other kind of yeah, sure. Maybe just a few quick things to follow up on what you said. So yeah, basically it's like this is basically two by two metrics and as Sandeep already says, we said we either have validity proofs or fraud proofs. Validity proofs are just proofs that are proving the validity of a whole batch of transactions. And we are also popularly calling these type of proofs ZK proofs. So these are basically succinct cryptographic proofs that the whole batch of transactions is valid and that validity proof is validated or processed on the ethereum. Mainet and that is how actually these types of solutions are driving security from ethereum.
00:08:23.898 - 00:09:36.906, Speaker B: So these sorts of proofs are by default non interactive. On the other hand, we have fraud proofs which are by default interactive or reactive, if you will. So what does that mean? Basically for fraud proof based solutions it is necessary that some party, ideally the owner or the end user. So if you have some funds that are in a solution that is based on fraud proofs, ideally you should be monitoring that particular chain or that particular scalability solution. And in case you notice some malicious activity, you should ideally or some third party that you don't necessarily have to trust should submit this challenge that Sandeep already mentioned. So that is kind of a major difference between validity proofs and fraud proofs. Validity proofs, there is no need for that sort of constant monitoring of the scaling solution, ie.
00:09:36.906 - 00:10:32.706, Speaker B: Activity in it. So that is, I would say, one advantage of validity solutions. Unfortunately the trade off with validity solutions, there are multiple, I guess all solutions of course have trade offs, but basically validity proofs tend to be larger in size, tend to be computationally intensive. It is kind of not trivial in terms of computational power to generate these Ek proofs. The cryptography is still being approved. Many of these solutions, excluding probably only Starkware because their validity proofs are based on Stark, which is a separate type of separate flavor of cryptography that doesn't require that thing called Trusted Setup. All other solutions are actually requiring that trusted setup.
00:10:32.706 - 00:12:19.278, Speaker B: And Trusted Setup is basically a ceremony where you generate some initial parameters that are required to actually later produce these validity proofs. And if at any point this ceremony, this trusted setup ceremony is compromised there can be basically any sort of exploit and the entity that managed to compromise the trusted setup is able to basically steal users funds and steal them in a very catastrophic way. Because the Ethereum Mainet would just process that fraudulent validity proof without even being aware that it's fraudulent because the setup is compromised. So yes, we could talk for hours basically about these solutions and maybe just on the other side cover the other side of the matrix and that is basically where the data is stored. If data is on chain the situation is very clear in a sense that's the highest level of guarantee that the data is available and that's why these solutions like optimistic roll ups and ZC roll ups are so popular recently because it is like a trivial way to solve data availability problem. That is basically a pretty challenging problem. And however, the major downside of storing data on chain is that you're kind of continuing to clog the ethereum Mainet.
00:12:19.278 - 00:13:13.418, Speaker B: And we all know that the capacity of the main net is very limited and that is why we should, I guess as a community be aware that optimistic roll ups and ZK roll ups are very exciting solutions. But they are not, unfortunately, long term solutions for ethereum scalability. Because again we are storing all this data on the Ethereum Mainet thus ensuring really high guarantees for data availability. The highest guarantees. But we are significantly limiting throughput of such solutions. So to put that into perspective, the Care roll ups and optimistic Roll ups can offer us maybe two orders of magnitude of scalability improvement which is I guess we will all agree, not that amazing. On the other hand, these off chain data availability solutions don't have that trade off.
00:13:13.418 - 00:13:42.766, Speaker B: But as I said, data availability is a challenging problem and it is pretty hard to ensure or guarantee data availability if the data is off chain. So there are basically many techniques that are being explored but none of them of course can offer the guarantees of Ethereum. So with any scalability solution basically the point is it's all about trade offs.
00:13:42.958 - 00:13:43.746, Speaker C: Exactly.
00:13:43.928 - 00:13:44.322, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:13:44.376 - 00:14:56.086, Speaker C: So as you already saw that with this kind of category on chain data it's really secure and that's why we call them roll ups because even if, let's say the layer two setup completely goes for a toss you can actually roll that chain like kind of create that chain back from the available data. So it's much more secure in terms of any fraudulent kind of events or fraud events. But then it has limitations because the data is on Ethereum engine same. But with off chain data that trade off is not there. But then if the data availability setup goes for a toss, then it can be catastrophic as Miyalu mentioned, coming to the then other kind of solutions. How? Again the pure layer two because see again on a higher level, if you see the trade offs at the end you want Ethereum to safeguard the off chain setup. So if you want Ethereum to safeguard the layer two setup then it is going to be costly and then there can be a lot of use cases where projects do not or kind of the solutions that are being developed.
00:14:56.086 - 00:16:19.250, Speaker C: They do not want, let's say that high level of security, for example some sort of NFTs like small ticket size NFTs or somebody is issuing let's say tickets of the events and things like that. So there are huge number of use cases wherein you might not need that level of security. Like Mihalo at times gives that example that do you want a global level like Ethereum main chain level security for a convenience stores transactions, right? So it might not be required. So the philosophy and then right now we are not speaking too much about the polygon but the idea of polygon or the core thesis of polygon revolves around this that Ethereum is going to be the ultimate settlement layer and then on top of it you will have all of these different techniques like layer two techniques. So for example, we are also working on some of these optimistic roll up ZK roll up related techniques. We have our plasma solution and like the proof of stake or the commit chain solution already live. We expect to kind of launch more solutions which I'll talk about like shared security solution for Ethereum which let's say the popular example for that is let's say Polkadot, where Polkadot is trying to create a shared security layer which will be a central chain and around that you will have parachains.
00:16:19.250 - 00:17:33.402, Speaker C: So what we want to eventually build is and in some form the matic POS because it works using a validation layer. If you want to go deep into that, maybe we can talk offline that there is a sort of a beacon chain and on top of which the polygon commit chains work so they can actually the same security setup can spawn off multiple such chains, right? So that will kind of in some form might look like a Sharded kind of architecture or like a Polkadot kind of architecture on top of Ethereum. So our approach is that what Polkadot is building as a separate ecosystem, we want to offer that opportunity for the Ethereum developers wherein they can spawn off I don't want to call parachains, but let's say standalone chains using shared security mechanisms run by the polygon validators and they all kind of center and connect into Ethereum. So that's one way. And then you can also have standalone chains. So standalone chains means for example, standalone chains can be lazy. Leather is one very off example, although it's more into data availability.
00:17:33.402 - 00:19:01.574, Speaker C: But then the examples of completely standalone chains can be let's say XDI chain which has standalone consensus, everything is separate. Or you can think of Cosmos like chains which are completely standalone chains. So with polygon. And we are coming out with something called polygon SDK in some time, which will be like something like what you have substrate in the polkadot ecosystem or cosmos SDK in the cosmos ecosystem, wherein you can spawn off these ethereum compatible or EVM compatible chains, which can then work on top of ethereum or readily connect to ethereum. And then finally, I want to lastly kind of show this spectrum that this Ethereum scaling techniques, whenever you are thinking about it, think of them as a larger kind of larger spectrum wherein on the complete left side you have a lot of side chains which are contributing back to Ethereum. Xdai is a very good example, that's a completely standalone chain, but they are hosting quite a lot of Ethereum applications. Like people are building a lot of casual as well as some DeFi applications and Dows have been built on XDI so they are also contributing back to the Ethereum ecosystem.
00:19:01.574 - 00:20:16.658, Speaker C: Similarly, when you see this line basically consider the left extreme, the sidechain extreme as completely standalone which does not depend on Ethereum's security at all. And then the right extreme that you can see where I posted as layer two, this right extreme is completely secured by Ethereum and then there are multiple these things in between. So side chain is on the left spectrum, then you have polygon PSS's commit chain where everything, the staking happens on Ethereum main chain, the slashing, the reward systems, everything is on Ethereum. And this is a very kind of coupled chain to Ethereum. And then if let's say there is some fraud happens on the layer two, if it is plasma, then you can actually exit your funds directly from the main chain. But even with the normal POS chain, if there is some fraud happens, at least you have the slashing available for the validators which are validating the commit chain. So that's one layer above, let's say a normal side chain and that has some security benefits in that sense.
00:20:16.658 - 00:21:30.714, Speaker C: But then one layer above that would be let's say validum kind of solutions which as Mihailo was explaining that the data is these are pure layer two solutions. But then if let's say the data is being stored off chain, there is certain level of trust assumption of the off chain data availability providers, if they go for a toss, then it can be catastrophic as Emilo mentioned. But as far as that layer is secured enough, you have a fair amount of security of the Ethereum main chain. The most secured solution by Ethereum main chain are your pure layer two solutions which include ZK roll ups, optimistic roll ups because there both dispute resolution and the data availability is directly on Ethereum main chain, so they are more secure. There are other solutions like state channel and Plasma which have been explored before. Plasma has like although everything works fine for transfers and all that, but then there are scenarios of let's say mass exit wherein subchain goes off and then everybody is trying to exit and Ethereum main chain gets clogged and all that. So those kind of scenarios are there.
00:21:30.714 - 00:21:57.970, Speaker C: But then there are mitigation techniques with dynamic withdrawal periods and things like that. And with state channels it is specific to or kind of people or the community has realized that they are useful for certain kind of mechanisms. If you want to see State Channel based solutions, you might want to look at let's say Connects Network, who's building now this layer two and layer one Bridging solutions. So those are also interesting solutions.
00:21:58.470 - 00:21:58.834, Speaker B: Yeah.
00:21:58.872 - 00:22:29.740, Speaker C: And somewhere between this layer before that, I think Scale Network was doing the presentation. So Scale Network will also lie somewhere here because I think their staking and everything also happens on Ethereum main chain, if I'm not wrong. So they will be somewhere between here. So this gives you a rough kind of spectrum of the Ethereum Scaling techniques. Hello. If you want to add anything, please feel free to add.
00:22:31.730 - 00:23:15.994, Speaker B: Basically, as Sandeep said, Ethereum Scaling is definitely a spectrum and all these solutions have different trade offs. And as Sandeep said, there is this left extreme side which is completely standalone chains or solutions. And on the right side, just a small basically correction. Plasma should be in that section before the last one because Plasma also has off chain data availability. But basically, I will kindly ask you to forgive us. We were not really prepared honestly for this presentation because we thought actually it's going to be a panel, believe it or not. So yeah, I think you can forgive us because this was last minute kind of for us.
00:23:15.994 - 00:24:05.734, Speaker B: Anyways, just to maybe add a few things regarding Polygon. We at Polygon are first of all in love with Ethereum and among other things, in Ethereum Scaling Ecosystem. It is amazing in a sense that many different independent teams with lots of brilliant people are working on these exciting solutions. And it is an organic ecosystem. And again, we really love it. But we believe, number one, that there needs to be some sort of structure to this creative chaos of Ethereum Scaling Ecosystem. And that's where we see the place for Polygon.
00:24:05.734 - 00:25:22.258, Speaker B: Polygon is basically a project that aims to introduce structure in some way to this beautiful organic, but somewhat chaotic ecosystem. Also, we believe that we are still very early in terms of infrastructure maturity. Ethereum as a project aims to kind of build alternative financial global ecosystem and basically to change the way we collaborate, we work with each other, even the way we organize ourselves. And it is like a very transformative idea. And the infrastructure, building the infrastructure to actually achieve that idea that will actually able to onboard billion plus people to actually use this system is going to take time. So we as a community, of course, and as human beings, we really want things to happen today if possible. But in our opinion that is not going to be the case.
00:25:22.258 - 00:26:24.520, Speaker B: Definitely Ethereum is five years old and Ethereum Scaling Solutions are generally like three years old and to achieve this great vision and great dream of Ethereum that we all believe in. We believe it's definitely going to take years of hard work. So when people say this is the year of Ethereum Scaling, we believe that it's unfortunately definitely not realistic. And with that in mind, we just want to kind of facilitate further innovation on the Ethereum Scaling front. And there is that famous misquote that says let 1000 flowers bloom. So that's what we want to do with Polygon. We want Polygon to be Ethereum Scaling and infrastructure hub that will support innovation and help Ethereum go through this transitional phase of infrastructure maturing, if you will.
00:26:24.520 - 00:26:48.400, Speaker B: And yes, basically it's kind of an overlay thesis on top of all these flavors that we try to introduce today. So basically all of them have their trade offs, all of them have their merit. So we just need to kind of facilitate and allow innovation to happen and see where that will kind of take us in the years to come.
00:26:49.250 - 00:26:49.998, Speaker C: Awesome.
00:26:50.164 - 00:26:50.494, Speaker B: Thanks.
00:26:50.532 - 00:26:55.250, Speaker C: Thanks. And I think we are already exhausted.
00:26:58.230 - 00:26:59.202, Speaker B: Thanks a lot.
00:26:59.336 - 00:27:22.230, Speaker A: Yeah, no meal. Thank you so much for that talk and a really good overview of what's happening and I largely agree with everything you said. Meal at the end is a very contrary opinion but I sincerely hope you're wrong because that's when the whole ecosystem gets to move forward really faster. So thanks again for the talk today.
00:27:22.300 - 00:27:31.920, Speaker B: And faster is not really always the best thing as a human being, like to move faster but it's not really be always great way.
00:27:32.690 - 00:27:35.790, Speaker A: It's about the compounding, not the velocity.
00:27:37.250 - 00:27:38.960, Speaker B: I totally hear you.
00:27:39.490 - 00:27:41.260, Speaker A: But yeah, with that thank you so.
