00:00:04.080 - 00:00:20.054, Speaker A: Welcome. I'm back again. You guys can't get rid of me that quickly, so we're gonna be diving into web3. Social won't sell you socks. I'm excited for it. I think I'm most excited to see what exactly that means from everyone up here, because I don't, you know, clueless, but it's great. Very excited about it.
00:00:20.054 - 00:00:33.314, Speaker A: So I'm even more eager to dive into it with you all and figure out what it is you guys have been working on, how it relates to the current climate of nfts, cryptocurrency, and specifically Solana. So I want to let you guys all introduce yourselves first.
00:00:34.734 - 00:01:07.004, Speaker B: Thank you. I'm Vixet, the founder and CEO at Solar Plex. We're basically helping creators do ten x better relationships with their audience and hopefully monetize without ads. Solar Plex is essentially a digital sort of content social marketplace. The goal being rather than disconnect social from the actual content that you sell, what if we put them all together and reduce the amount of friction that creators have today to really reach their audience and sell them the stuff that they actually want to buy, which they can't do today on other social platforms.
00:01:07.384 - 00:01:08.164, Speaker A: Awesome.
00:01:08.584 - 00:01:56.164, Speaker C: Hi, I'm Mark, I'm the coo at dialect. Dialect is a messaging app with web3 superpowers. What that means is we enable you to have new forms of expression, new forms of interactivity, with something that we call the smart message, which is where you can embed transactions right into your message. So you can get the context from a notification or a message from a friend, you can send tokens, you can sign like you get a notification from adapt that you're about to be liquidated. You could top up your account right from the message. There's all kinds of cool things that you can do once you have a wallet embedded right into your messenger. There's a lot of new things that we're working on as well that enable you to express yourself in new ways that we're excited to be sharing with folks, sharing with folks, too.
00:01:58.184 - 00:02:28.474, Speaker D: My name is Raymond Lee. I'm the CEO, co founder of Quiver. We're a decentralized identity platform that authenticates and validates your holistic self. We like to say we're creating a LinkedIn for culture. I think for us, it's about how you actually, you know, create civic participation by way of reputation building. And I think a lot of that has to do with attributions around things that you could do on that, validate things that you are passionate about. We've used the term proof of passion quite a bit because I think you can't really fake passion.
00:02:28.474 - 00:03:00.414, Speaker D: And when you're able to express that and validate it by way of social content, I think it actually says a lot about you and your identity. What that does is that it unlocks rewards and loyalty programs and potentially monetization programs as well. With brands and artists, we've done an activation with Deadmouse, we've done an activation with Doctor Scholz and also with Aquifer, with a beauty brand cohort. But we're really seeing this thing convert from an audience economy to a community based economy based off the fact you can validate your affinity towards these brands or these categories.
00:03:00.794 - 00:03:09.354, Speaker A: That's awesome. I appreciate the quick intros there as well. We got to address the elephant in the room here. What does web3 social won't sell you socks mean to you?
00:03:12.974 - 00:03:50.154, Speaker B: I think it comes from the whole uni SoC thing that happened a few years ago, is my guess. But again, my take on this is web3 social has sort of promised financialization of all sorts of things, and I think mostly speculation. And for the first batch of people that did that, all they got were socks. And hopefully going forward, what we can do is help actual use cases of financialization for creators and things like that, where you're not just left with some socks, but instead actually have a way to make a living that is not dependent on advertisers and large social network platforms that eat all of the energy in the room for themselves.
00:03:50.694 - 00:03:51.834, Speaker A: Absolutely. Mark.
00:03:52.254 - 00:04:41.452, Speaker C: Yeah. So I think one of the things that we think a lot about at dialect is how you can, in web3, you can own your voice, you can own your relationships, you can own your attention. Honestly, we were all waiting for you to tell us what this was going to mean, but for us, what that means. If you're a creator, you can start your own group chat and invite whoever you want. It can be permissioned, it can be unpermissioned, and you can own your relationships, own your audience in that group chat, and also do things like mint nfts right from the chat and engage them in new ways that don't involve dialect as the platform, trying to monetize whatever is going on there. And because you have those relationships, you can take them off of the dialect platform. We're just there to help you grow and facilitate that relationship with your audience.
00:04:41.508 - 00:04:50.692, Speaker A: It almost aggregates a lot of those things to streamline the process for the user. So, Raymond, I guess for you, what would it mean when it comes to the whole socks situation, I had to.
00:04:50.708 - 00:05:34.774, Speaker D: Look this up in terms of what the socks drop was. I think it was like 500 was in the collection, and I think it got to a peak of like $92,000, something like that. And what you get with that token is a physical pair of socks and with zero utility. And I think that's really, for me, like, what this kind of conversation, at least is about. It's like, where does real utility happen in Web three, especially around social. And I think that's the way we look at utility, is like, how do you actually create something that is extremely fungible, where people just really want to just exit and create something that's non fungible, and people just actually want to root it into their identity, where they could actually unlock a lot of rewards and participate in communities that they want to be involved in?
00:05:34.934 - 00:06:04.126, Speaker A: No, 100%. I mean, we've actually seen this massive rise in what many are referring to as social fi across multiple other chains, not just Solana. Solana, of course, has many iterations of it, but things like stars arena, which is going through their own situation, of course. And then obviously friend tech, which took the world by storm for six to eight weeks at one point. And you all have different iterations of that social aspect. Very much so. So I guess I'm most curious because the main thing most people looked at with this was the user adoption, the user acquisition, user retention.
00:06:04.126 - 00:06:25.718, Speaker A: And I guess my question for you, and to start, I'd love to hear the thoughts from all of you, would be, what is that user acquisition strategy, especially in such an emerging market, where it fluctuates day by day on how many daily active users you have? How do you go about capturing attention, staying in the focal point of it, and getting people excited in what many would consider a niche market right now?
00:06:25.886 - 00:07:32.828, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. At solar plex, we think about this probably in a very controversial way, compared to what the other sort of controversy, why things are doing. We don't think that speculation has no role to play in the creator economy in the way that has been shown so far. What we should be doing instead is saying, what are the non advertising mechanisms that you can actually make creators earn an income? And then how do you apply crypto towards that? And so there's actually two parts to it, right? One is the speculative aspect drives interesting, gamified behavior, which brings people back. So there's your retention point, where speculation, if done well, will actually bring people back. At solplex, we have these reactions that people mint by rolling a dice every day, and based on what they see, they might get something that's sort of common or rare, for instance, and that keeps them coming back. They can also use these reactions, which brings me to the second point, which is artists who are creating these, or creators who are creating these reactions are able to now see exactly who did this, and they developed this one on one relationship with them, which now allows them to, for instance, create subscriptions or sell them content directly in a way you can on their social media.
00:07:32.828 - 00:07:59.250, Speaker B: So to bring it back, user acquisition actually is happening around communities created by creators and bringing them on as sort of a complement to their existing channel of user acquisition and sort of driving them more towards engagement and retention because we can't compete with Twitter in terms of. So we have to play in that sort of secondary niche or market of ten x, better retention and engagement compared to the big social media platforms.
00:07:59.402 - 00:08:30.448, Speaker A: No, it's a really interesting take there because you mentioned that ten X, better engagement and retention, but you also mentioned something from like a subscription or essentially gated content, which you do see web, two platforms, much like a Patreon and others that have very similar models and very high retention rates. I think I even like for podcasts, have some subscriptions where I just want the content early or ad free, which is a huge part of it. So do you lean on any of that from existing markets? And how do you even amplify your product against those existing markets to try to stand out, like I said, in this niche market that we're in?
00:08:30.616 - 00:09:09.694, Speaker B: Yeah. To your point, if people put Patreon links in their Instagram profiles or TikTok profiles as a way to support them, what they don't often get, and this is even with Patreon's most recent rebrand, as you might have seen, is they've gone all the way, they're almost trying to do social, but not really. And what ends up happening is Patreon is still the gatekeeper towards the income that is being made. Right. And a lot of creators are not really happy with that because, for one, they don't get to engage with their audience, they don't get good analytics, they don't get any easy ways to reward and recognize their most engaged users, and there's a gatekeeper there that they have to use. And there's really no other thing. I mean, Ko fi probably isn't even close to Patreon in terms of the disbursements of income.
00:09:09.694 - 00:10:08.624, Speaker B: So to take this sort of long story short, if you were to replace a Patreon link with, let's say, a solar plex link. Right. What happens? Well, for one, it's all on chain. So you own your audience, you own the content that they're creating, you own the people who buy your content sort of relationship directly, and now you own the way you recognize them and reward them through badges and reactions that are also on chain, which now creates a very interesting sort of recognition loop, as we call it, where over time, this is a virtuous social cycle where people will discover your content in a way that is not possible on Patreon because they've kind of siloed it to per creator, whereas in our side, we have communities of people interested in the same thing that are sort of trying to find out the best creators and content. So I think there's a fundamental difference there, both in terms of sort of the ownership of content, sort of the kinds of interesting, delightful experiences you can create, but also extensible plugins that you could build on top of the protocol like this, which you couldn't on Patreon.
00:10:09.164 - 00:10:46.532, Speaker A: No, and I like that it's something to be conscious of and kind of make that shift towards. I also like the fact that it has that gamified component where you mentioned the ability to reward specific consumers of content, which the analytics. I'm a big data junkie myself, so being able to analyze that takes it beyond these traditional means, which opens up a lot of doors. And I guess, Mark, that same question would be towards you would be, what does that user acquisition retention look like? I mean, I've got thousands of dialect stickers at this point, so I'm very, very familiar, and it's become a game to get and collect all the packs, which I think is a great model. It's made me come back a million times. But I'm curious, what does that kind of look like from your perspective? What have you seen that's worked? What have you seen that you've pivoted from? That's been a struggle.
00:10:46.708 - 00:12:17.518, Speaker C: Yeah. So I think for us, we think about, especially in the early days of a social application, you have to create a single player experience so that you can kickstart the network. And stickers were a big part of that for us. And then creating a collector's experience around the stickers, and then also allowing people to find token gated group chats and communities around these, whether they got stickers from a PFP project and found their community there, or from one of one artists that they were really passionate about. And so that was a big part of the early days of where we were and where we're going from here is creating other forms of utility for people, specifically around expression. One of the things that we found with stickers specifically is that many of the stickers that were most successful, not just in terms of collecting, because there's a whole collector's aspect of it, but in terms of actual communication and expression, were the stickers that were closest to memes that people really liked. And so one of the things that we're exploring now is how do you give people tools to express themselves more quickly, to be funnier, faster in the part of chat? And one of the things that requests that we've gotten a lot is, can I use my stickers outside of dialect? Can I use them in every platform, everywhere I go? And so a lot of the experimentation that we're doing now is how you can take that experience where you have found something that you really identify with, you have curated your own voice, your own personality through these sets of space stickers.
00:12:17.518 - 00:12:29.662, Speaker C: And how can we expand beyond that and allow you to take that everywhere you're going? So dialect can become this platform for expression and not just chat with the niche community that we have today.
00:12:29.758 - 00:13:14.064, Speaker A: No, and I think that's spot on. You also have myself included. When I see a sticker I don't have, it's like I need this. It's that sense of need now which creates that single player kind of economy in itself, which is really interesting take, because I think even something like a telegram has done a very similar job with it, where you have these different packs and opportunities to unlock it. But I guess what makes dialect stand out from some other messaging platforms, from the social fib aspect, I think you teased a little bit of it early on, where you talked about the ability for a dapp that mentions you're about to get margin called, you can pop it right up, you can exit a trade and save your bags if you need to. So I guess what really makes you guys stand out and differentiate yourself to try to onboard more people outside of the traditional crypto web3 space, or even decentralized applications from more of the centralized means.
00:13:14.404 - 00:13:53.522, Speaker C: Yeah, so I think on that front, we haven't completely figured it out yet. It's an incredibly difficult problem. But the superpowers of web3 are ownership and interoperability. And I think stickers really get at this idea of how do I own my voice? How could I take it anywhere? How can I create this experience? Then on the interoperability aspect, finding things within the web3 community, like with magic Eden, with Tensor, we've created really interesting, compelling experiences where you can trade stickers peer to peer. There's a social experience there. You can share a link to something. And NFTs are the real e commerce opportunity right now in web3.
00:13:53.522 - 00:14:20.078, Speaker C: And so I think for us longer term, what we need as an application is to see more e commerce come meaningfully on chain, because the experience that you can get when you can share a link to an NFT on Magic Eden, you could buy it right from the message, is pretty compelling, and you could really lean into that interoperability, and that's a magic experience. And so seeing more of that across the Internet is, I think, where we can start to really start to differentiate on that front.
00:14:20.246 - 00:14:36.246, Speaker A: I think you are already seeing that from traditional brands, too. Like an iMessage, for example, applications right within the widgets and the dashboard to streamline it. Efficiency is the name of the game. And especially as we've already started to see, it feels great when crypto's rallying because all the people who left start reaching out to see what's been going on.
00:14:36.270 - 00:14:36.526, Speaker B: That's right.
00:14:36.550 - 00:14:36.830, Speaker C: That's right.
00:14:36.862 - 00:14:56.314, Speaker A: And now, if there's even easier ways to help them understand it, it streamlines it all. And you guys have hit a home run, in my opinion, on it. So great job with that. And I guess my question there for Raymond would be similarly, what have you found success in? What has really made everything that you've worked on stand out from traditional web two? I don't want to say competitors, but web two, similar products.
00:14:56.454 - 00:15:50.562, Speaker D: Yeah. As everyone knows, that user acquisition for a social platform is very difficult, especially when you're doing a native mobile app, which is what we're doing. But I think the root of this is we talk internally a lot about how do you incentivize civic participation? And that obviously would be the goal here, is to get to the masses. And I think the part of this is, what do they care about and why do they spend all this time on social media? I think it has to do with reputation. At the end of the day, I think people are building reputation on social media. And I think it's about how do you actually make, how do you make reputation be something where we kind of reimagine it and the way we imagine it is that you could have merit based reputation and stuff that's based off of your interactions, your engagement, and also the stuff your values. And so for quiver, what we've done is incentivize the user to not reinvent the stuff they're doing on all those social platforms.
00:15:50.562 - 00:16:30.860, Speaker D: But come in, connect your social graphs and take an amalgamation of all that graph data. Like your Spotify says a lot about your music life. And so when you connect your Spotify on quiver, we'll badge you as an NFT. Each badge is an NFT and we'll know that you love deadmalls or you love Morgan wall on country music singer because of your behavior on those social graphs. And so what we're doing is we're saying we know your behavior economics on social media, that could actually translate to a new way that you're building your reputation on quivering. And so that's how we've been able to acquire users, through some partnerships as well. Obviously, like some of the bespoke activations we've had Deadmau and him tweeting about it and then putting it on his IG saying, hey, come to quiver, get validated.
00:16:30.860 - 00:17:10.124, Speaker D: It's proof of fan. And then you get in this pool to be able to access a meet and greet while he's on tour, which is day of the dead mouse. Right now, we did something with aquifer for you could be select as one of your brand ambassadors. And so when they're promoting that, 3000 people will come in and say, I want to be a brand ambassador. And then they'll get, but you have to get validated by way of your social data or by way of the community, which actually creates UGC content of prove that you are a beauty fan. And they'll create like a short video on Quiver. And the community gets to actually attest whether or not you are authentic enough to be part of that community.
00:17:10.504 - 00:17:37.358, Speaker A: No, that's really interesting too, because it's expands this to traditional brands who may have been hesitant to join the web. Three side of things, especially nfts, have kind of been this buzzword to many and a no go for many. So I guess that's a backup question to what I was kind of trying to drive into here following was working with these traditional brands, especially from the quiver side, what's been difficult to onboard and work with them, especially because so many people have been against nfts.
00:17:37.526 - 00:18:31.626, Speaker D: Yeah. So my previous life, I was the chief product officer for a web two platform called Pairpop and had like 150,000 TikTok creators on there. And we worked with a bunch of brands and it was essentially a matchmaking platform. It does a great job of it still of taking attributes around what brands want to target a cohort of TikTok creators and automate the whole process of running a branded campaign. I think what I learned in that process as a CPO was that you started tapping into experimental use cases and experimental budgets. And so what we're seeing right now with quiver is a similar kind of behavior of like, hey, this is actually interesting because we're not. So we want to reinvent like or reimagine how we do influencer marketing going into 2024, influencer marketing is not necessarily going to be about top of funnel awareness.
00:18:31.626 - 00:18:59.174, Speaker D: People will still do that, but it's like how do you get horizontal? And how do you actually convert your audience into a community and then engage with them beyond just doing a UGC campaign, but co create with them, do a survey with them, pay them to actually do a product review. So for us, it's about how do you reward their reputations that they're building on quiver and these affinities that they're coming to. But that's the conversation we've been having with brands, is that they want to just reimagine the way they're engaging with their community.
00:18:59.654 - 00:19:29.516, Speaker A: No, I think that's a big piece of it too. And it's that reputation score can mean a lot. I mean, I know people who obsess over their uber ratings. It's like their life depends on it. So being able to actually relay that to an influencer economy and having someone like Deadmau reach out and share it organically is a really interesting thing that happens. And it shows that there's something there well beyond it, which is almost a proof of concept behind it. And it's awesome that you've had these massive partnerships as well with well known brands, getting people into the platform and even establishing what doesn't feel like an NFT.
00:19:29.516 - 00:19:54.414, Speaker A: And I think that's one of the biggest things with web3 social in general, is that it doesn't need to feel or even make people hyper aware that there's blockchain behind it. So I guess pivoting over to mark here with dialect, what's been something difficult that's been with the product, launching it, getting users, especially knowing this sense of owning the assets in the app, has there ever been messaging conflicts or trying to help people understand what exactly that means when it comes to new users?
00:19:55.034 - 00:20:48.816, Speaker C: Yeah, I think one of the things that we've adjusted over time is where and how we emphasize the web3 ness of what we're doing. I think especially in the early days, focusing on a niche community is really helpful, especially a community as passionate as NFT collectors. And so that's been super helpful. But as you expand beyond that, what does it look like to talk about these stickers? Are NFTs, are they collectible? And for a lot of folks, especially as we've expanded beyond and done experiments with folks that haven't touched a blockchain ever, haven't touched anything, Web three don't want to even think about it. For them, it's just I found this really cool, interesting, compelling piece of content and it was fun when I opened the pack and I got to see if I got a rare sticker or a rare collectible of some kind. And for of them, that was enough. They didn't even need to think about reselling or anything else.
00:20:48.816 - 00:21:34.716, Speaker C: And so I think the future for us and for web3 social and web3 products in general, is for the web3 branding and everything to melt into the background. The way that people don't talk about like, oh, I use this AWS app or I use the GCP app, they're just using something that is fun, that is entertaining or has a specific utility for them and they just wanted to do a job for them. And I think that's where we have to go. And the more depending on which audience you're targeting, you have to think about how you emphasize those things. But we've done a lot of work to try to abstract away and make and simplify the user experience away from some of the things that can be complicated or scary to some people about web3.
00:21:34.820 - 00:22:33.402, Speaker A: And I think that's a huge win in general when it comes to this space, is we understand the technology, we've been early to it. It's what kind of drove a lot of people here. But the next wave of adoption doesn't feel like it'll come from the same as the previous. And it's much like we saw when I was around during the Ethereum run and Defi summer and even before that, when people would look at bitcoin at $100 and say, why would I touch that? It's all this kind of growth aspect where now you could ask anyone to name a cryptocurrency and they're going to say bitcoin, not understanding anything else aside, that that is what it is. And I think I love the mention you made where you're like, I'm not using this AWS app, it's like I'm using Twitter or it's still on that type of database, but it's awesome because that's where I do agree that the growth is going to come from, and I definitely have some strong opinions too from the wide array of nfts and the number that's going to go into it, which is where I think the sticker packs are great because it's a much larger supply than many currently in the space are even familiar with, where it doesn't feel like this limited ten k supply PFP project, but rather there's half a million stickers and even more at times that people can participate in, which opens up a massive audience.
00:22:33.508 - 00:22:55.446, Speaker C: Abundance and accessibility are important to us because we want. I think the future is that you can buy a pack of something like you would a pack of trading cards for $5, or you see one that you like, you can buy it for twenty five cents, one dollar. That's the kind of thing that is more accessible to a broader audience and then moving towards USDC versus denominating everything in magic Internet money.
00:22:55.550 - 00:23:19.454, Speaker A: Yeah, exactly. That's a big piece of it too. So, I mean, looking at solar, solar place, what you guys have done as well, it's a very interesting market knowing that the web two counterpart has a wide reach and many competitors in it. What's been something that's been difficult for you? Growing, scaling and trying to drive this in a way that's completely unique to web3, but also limiting how much of the web3 nomenclature that's actually used?
00:23:19.834 - 00:23:56.602, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a great question. Solar Plex was built in two phases. The first one, and our focus has always been on communities. So the first phase was an app that looked a lot like Reddit, where every post was made on chain, everything was completely on chain, all the incentives were on chain, and the UX looked a lot like Reddit. And what we found was that people who are crypto native are more familiar with the Twitter aspect of things. So we actually took the community's aspect, but made it more look like feeds. So now the question was, which of this stuff remains on chain? And what we found was that people don't really care about messages on chain.
00:23:56.602 - 00:25:00.274, Speaker B: They don't care about what they say being on chain for a variety of reasons. It could be, I don't want this to be always there for the rest of my life kind of thing, but also, why do I need to pay 100th of a cent to do this? But what they really did care about was my points, my incentives, the rewards. I get the recognition, I get the lead awards, I'm on all of those be on chain, because now I can actually utilize that in some way that is financializable in the future, whatever that might be. So the way we've constructed solar plex now essentially is all of the messages and things like that are in a decentralized protocol, but all of the point systems, incentives and all that stuff is on chain. What this really gives us then, is an interesting layer of data that is now on chain that allows us to, you know, it's completely owned by the user. So as an example, if you use a compressed NFT reaction on a post, we can actually figure out that, oh, this is a compressed NFT reaction. It was made by user XYZ on this particular post.
00:25:00.274 - 00:25:30.934, Speaker B: And that's really interesting data. It sort of almost shows you what your interests are. And we've been thinking a lot about this concept of sort of, well, social graphs have been around for a while, and social media companies, to your point, have taken those social graphs and sort of created a around them and use this for advertising. And that's their business model. If you were to take sort of this, break these walls down and invert this on its head, well, content is no longer done by social graphs, it's done by your interests. Like TikTok is a great example of this. You could have the widest reach possible.
00:25:30.934 - 00:26:18.114, Speaker B: But if your video was not great, it doesn't get the views. So really it's all about the engagement on that video. And what we're trying to do is say, well, what if all that data was on chain, owned by the user, permissioned by the user for someone else to use it, thereby creating models for making money off that for that creator, and creating interesting apps that a user could be able to use without relying on that product manager sitting at Facebook who's figuring out what next. I think doing all this stuff on chain really expands the horizons of what you can experiment with. I think, as Mark mentioned, I don't think anybody currently has the best solutions in mind. But having this data gives you a foundation to run all the experiments. You need to figure out what those could look like.
00:26:18.274 - 00:26:47.852, Speaker A: No, I think that's a big part. Like I said, I'm a big data junkie as well. Knowing that the user can actually own that data and drive action off of it and get more insight, opens up a ton of different opportunities. But you also mentioned too, that in the current moment, nobody's really sure what that golden path forward is. The surefire is way to a billion users. But I guess for you, what would you say the future of web3? Social and social fi, social dynamics, social applications looks like. And what are you most excited for?
00:26:47.988 - 00:27:41.080, Speaker B: Yeah, that's a pretty wide ranging question, so I'll break it down a bit. We think of social as at solar plex, we think of social as sort of a marketplace, right? It's a creator creative, creating content, and there's a consumer consuming this content. Now, so far, there has been no easy way for this to be monetized by the creator, short of getting ad money, hopefully from the platform they're on. On the flip side, there's been no easy way for consumers to show appreciation for the creators in some way, whether it be through subscriptions or whatnot. It's all pretty fragmented right now. I think the core aspect of financialization that crypto brings actually has interesting solutions for both these problems. On one side, you can develop really great relationships with your end audience in a way that you can't on platforms because they want to hold that data for monetization purposes.
00:27:41.080 - 00:28:06.962, Speaker B: And on the other side, you allow people to create microtransaction based economies in ways you cannot do on web two today. So I think the future of sort of social powered by web3 is when creators are able to create these amazing relationships and monetize them in a way that is true to their community and their interests and what they want, versus sort of relying on platforms, giving them sort of almost scraps from their revenues.
00:28:07.138 - 00:28:40.384, Speaker A: Yeah, and I think it's also because there are many competitors still in the web two space that are fighting amongst each other for those consumer side of things. So when you're thinking of consumer first and empowering them to take it and manipulate and drive it and do the actions that they want in their way, it becomes significantly more enticing. There is still, of course, that adoption effort that needs to come from decentralized applications, which I'm positive is inevitable, but it's a matter of when, not if. And that's a big question there. But mark, same question for you would be what are you most excited about when it comes to the web3 social side of things? Web three social applications, and even specifically dialect.
00:28:40.804 - 00:29:57.546, Speaker C: Yeah, so I'm excited about a future where when a brand or anybody wants to reach you, the majority of that value comes back to you. And I think through things like what Viks described, where a user has more control over their data that can create that positive flywheel where you can decide, and if more of that value is deriving towards you because you get better personalization with who's trying to reach you, or there's actual monetary value to it, you are more likely to expose some of that data because you want to be reached in a more accurate manner. And then on the creator side, I think there's a lot of power in being able to own your audience, take it with you, create these more genuine relationships. And I think that's like, that ownership side of things is something that's going to be very exciting. And on the interoperability side, I think that's the other aspect of this, which is how you can start to create experiences. Like people have built things on top of the sticker packs that we have, there's been people building dashboards and experiences and ways that you can burn stickers and do quests to gain these sorts of things. And that was something that we enabled creators to mint these NFTs and send them out.
00:29:57.546 - 00:30:10.878, Speaker C: But as soon as creators ask us to do anything using that platform, we're very open to helping them do those things. And then where the community goes with those things beyond dialect, I think is pretty exciting as well.
00:30:11.006 - 00:30:59.480, Speaker A: Yeah, it's the empowerment of it and then the openness that allows them to iterate on top of it. And then that support creates more creators, more users, because that support actually extends them the ability to drive action, which is huge. And it's a clear shift from some of these other traditional applications in the web, two side of things, which many times a creator, you'd say they struggle with getting that recognition, that support, which is a big push back towards the creator themselves. So it's awesome to see that growth and that scalability. And I know with dialect, you guys partner with so many different brands, especially that are web3 native, that just gets people excited. So it's really well done to watch them then create on top of it and kind of give them the openness as well. But I mean, with Quiver here, Raymond, same kind of question, what have you seen that's gotten you excited in web3 social? What are you excited for in the future? And specifically with Quiver, what's something that you're really kind of focused on here?
00:30:59.572 - 00:32:14.718, Speaker D: Yeah, so I've had the fortunate experience of working with dead Mouse for about ten plus years, and we built like this direct to fan business called upfront. It was like a mobile app that gave you direct or dead mouse direct access to his fans. And so I've always been passionate about this intermediation and just like having this, and not worry about going through the four wall or the wall garden system. And so I've seen the power of that, to be honest, and see how the communities kind of form together from having direct access. So I am also equally excited of how we could actually flip the narrative of the importance of owning your own data and owning your identity. I think that when we had this, when we first launched, when we started productizing quiver and designing quiver, we brought people from the college cohort in the design space and we were asking them, would you guys, you guys care about owning your data or do you care that the other platforms own your data? And all of them said they don't care because of the fact that they get so much value from the experience of consumption that they don't really understand what could mean if they actually own their data, let alone synthesize that data. And obviously we're here to help them accomplish that.
00:32:14.718 - 00:33:46.068, Speaker D: So we need to figure out a way of how do you get people like those college kids to really care about data ownership and also flipping the script about owning their narrative and then unlocking value? That's number one. I think the second one is, I'm a big believer of bridging IRL with digital, and I think that more brands and more artists are actually looking for ways that they could go long tail with their community, including IRL experiences, but it has to be attributed to some sort of provenance of that person as a fan, a repeat buyer, or someone that's loyal to your retail store or whatever, and then you could actually create rewards for that. So I do see that trend happening as well. And then I think in terms of people, it's about creating these tools and leveraging the ecosystem to be able to monetize data stores. And if you think about what we're all talking about here is attribution around people's social behavior, their digital profiles. And if we figure out a mechanism where they have a way to unlock their data stores, whether it's ZK or whether it's a direct access, and someone just says, hey, can you validate that you are a fan of Nike? Or can you actually, Nike may say, hey, can you validate that you're a fan of Nike? But also can you tell me the five brands that you follow, the top five brands that you follow on X? That's extremely valuable data for someone like Nike. So I think it's about how you bridge the value.
00:33:46.068 - 00:33:55.904, Speaker D: The brand value, I think will be easy for us to articulate. I think is how do you get consumers at scale to say, I want to understand my data and this is what it's going to equal to, and this is what kind of rewards it's going to unlock?
00:33:56.284 - 00:34:23.660, Speaker A: No. And I love that too, because you also do see that. I always think when you have a Netflix profile you just set up, that's for the five tv shows you've watched are like. Because that data becomes inherently ways for them to leverage it and give you a better consumer experience, which will lead to you coming back to the platform, using it, more, engaging with it. You feel like this stuff is tailored to you, despite maybe it's quite not, but we are almost at time here, so I wanted to see if you guys had any closing thoughts. It's been a great conversation. I've learned a ton about web3 social aspects and applications here, so I appreciate it all.
00:34:23.660 - 00:34:26.004, Speaker A: Vixit, did you have anything to end on?
00:34:26.164 - 00:35:14.933, Speaker B: Yeah, I think the biggest issues I see right now for web3 social is the narrative. The fact that nfts and crypto is still seen as a scammy thing. And as you've seen many times before, people have actually fundamentally rejected NFTs after being told that what you're working on might be blockchain related. And so the question for me is, really, for any of this to succeed, the narrative needs to change. I think the question for me as well, how should we change that narrative, and what are the steps we need to take as a community? Because only no one entity is going to change that. It's going to be something very fundamental. And I'm hoping that with all the builders that are coming on today in the salon and other places, I think that's a narrative we should be figuring out a very comprehensive plan to fix.
00:35:15.513 - 00:35:41.290, Speaker A: I think you're spot on as well, personally, that narrative shift leads to more people to be comfortable with something. Right now, it's kind of taboo to use the word NFT or participate in this industry, which is crazy to me. Obviously, I've been an active participant and a fan of it all, so I do think that that shift will change. We're already seeing, with much of what all three of you are doing, making this to the consumer side and the creator side from a social aspect, not feel like blockchain, which is a big win for a lot of people. Mark, was there anything you wanted to close on?
00:35:41.482 - 00:36:28.154, Speaker C: Yeah, I would just say that in social, the number one thing that you have to do is create a great social app. And there are web3 tools that you can use to infuse that app with more interesting experiences. But the number one thing you have to do is create an extremely compelling experience, whether that's based on entertainment or that's based on a certain type of utility. And so I think for us at dialect, for other people building in the space, that has to be the number one focus. And I think eventually, in the fullness of time, all of the tools that we have and what we use, that will start to fade into the background and all the challenges around narrative that we may have. That can't be the emphasis of what we're doing. It has to first start with that fantastic experience.
00:36:28.314 - 00:36:40.626, Speaker A: I think you're spot on. It's exactly what we've seen from many applications that get massive consumer adoption. The more seamless it is, the easier it is, and the more that people enjoy it leads to that reoccurring user, which is all part of that scale. Raymond, was there anything that you wanted to wrap with?
00:36:40.690 - 00:37:31.724, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm excited for 2024 because I'm seeing a couple, witnessing, actually a couple of trends that I think are going to impact the industry in a positive way. I think on the macro side, from a brand perspective, is that they want access directly to their community, and they also want access to Forrester. I can't remember who the researcher came up with this concept of zero party data. And the idea is how do you actually get access to people, your consumer, that actually expressly, intentionally and proactively shares data with you? Right now, people do surveys. There's other ways that you could actually get your community to express that form of data. And so you're seeing people start for that. I think you're also seeing people that also are looking to invest in where we're calling.
00:37:31.724 - 00:38:15.842, Speaker D: And the metric is CLTV, community LTV. And it's about how do you actually engage with them long term? We're seeing this with the beauty brand that's about to, that we're negotiating with. It's how do you get them to do co creation, UGC survey, product review, come to the store and track that and measure that, and constantly invest in that same community over and over and over again, and grow that community too. So that's another trend that we're seeing that I'm excited about for the industry. And I think in general, I think there's people like us are just building product that makes very easy to not clunky for consumers. Like an 18 year old kid from the Ghost University of Tennessee to actually use a web3 platform. And I think that there's more great inventions that are coming out there to feel like a native web two app.
00:38:15.842 - 00:38:50.514, Speaker D: So the UI Ux has gotten a lot better. It feels clunky. You don't have to connect to metamask Wallet. There's ways that we do it where you just on board with the phone number and you verify you correct this. So wallet, and all of a sudden now you're collecting these badges as nfts, unbeknownst to the user. And so I think that's what we're seeing, too, which is also why I'm excited. The last thing I would say is that because of the privacy pressures and of, like, marketing and retargeting on devices and the restrictions, it is and hard to actually identify the users and get attributes.
00:38:50.514 - 00:39:09.754, Speaker D: I think that's becoming a growing trend that's going to help us, all of us on the stage. I think there's also potentially the possibility of Google deprecating cookies. If that happens, this industry is going to be in a good spot. So I say if that happens, it could potentially see some sort of uptick on what we're doing.
00:39:10.254 - 00:39:19.726, Speaker A: That's awesome. And I appreciate all the words to close on. I appreciate the conversation with you all today. It was absolutely great. And thank you, everyone, for tuning in. I appreciate everyone in the audience as well. I know it's been a long day, so thank you.
00:39:19.910 - 00:39:20.734, Speaker C: Thank you, thank you.
