00:00:05.120 - 00:00:19.646, Speaker A: Everyone, am I doing this right? Yeah. There we go. Hi, everyone. Nice to be here. First things first, a little bit about me. My name is Tadeo. I joined Megadao as a community member, not after that.
00:00:19.646 - 00:00:54.324, Speaker A: I was contributing for a couple projects, finally joined the data insights core unit, and finally became the facilitator for that unit. And now I'm the developer relations for Phoenix Labs little Dao disclaimer these are my point of view only. This is an incredibly big system, and I'm only focusing on the things I deem that are relevant. And also just a pinch of salt with what I say. There we go. Okay, so Makerdao's more or less organizational structure. We have the MCD or the actual protocol.
00:00:54.324 - 00:02:07.314, Speaker A: In the middle, we have MKR holders making decisions on their protocol and its parameters. And then through our partners, we are connected to our users. On the demand side we have Dao users, and then on the supply side we have our vault owners. I want to focus on the bottom, the core units, which essentially are the teams that run the daily operations for the protocol and the DAO, and the delegates, people tasked with making informed decisions for the benefit of MKR holders. So this looks pretty clean and nice, and it worked, I would say, fairly well at the start when we're at small scale, which I think most things work that way. But then as we scaled up, we started encountering more and more issues and challenges that we can overcome with the current structure, particularly to exemplify with the core units, we started with only a few of them, and at the start of last year, we had this picture, which is where fully independent teams that were loosely connected and loosely collaborating with each other, the communication became almost impossible. Collaboration became quite difficult.
00:02:07.314 - 00:02:47.384, Speaker A: We started siloing ourselves and not really being as effective as we want to be. So a couple of the challenges, let's call them problems, that we actually had, are some over there. The main one is the idea of something being complex or complicated. Complexity is not necessarily a bad thing. It happens with maturity and with a growing system. The problem is that is translated to complications on the communication side. It's incredibly costly to know everything that's going on at maker.
00:02:47.384 - 00:03:36.354, Speaker A: I'm not sure if everyone tried going into the maker forum in the last few years. It's just a plethora of topics that get updated on an hourly basis. It's quite a challenge for newcomers to actually get situated and even try to find a way that they can actually effectively contribute to the DAO. That's one of the reasons we created the delegation system. We had people full time looking at trying to understand everything was going on in the system and then being able to try to vote effectively. And even this became challenging. And not long after that, it became obvious that not one single person can actually know everything that's going on at maker.
00:03:36.354 - 00:04:27.154, Speaker A: We usually talk about voter apathy, but for me the biggest problem was community member apathy. If you want to know about one topic, or you care about a topic, you want to stay updated and you want to contribute to it. It's incredibly difficult, and it's almost essentially a full time job. You encounter people that either completely check out because they just get frustrated, or even worse, they burn out because they try to take more than they can. And I could take all of this and just make the excuse that the DAO is not really optimizing for efficiency, we're optimizing for resiliency. But even then we failed on the resiliency side. We had multiple single points of failure that at any point could disrupt the entire organization.
00:04:27.154 - 00:05:19.658, Speaker A: So to simplify and really mimify it from a criteria point of view, we had the problem that governance didn't really have a clear direction. It was ideas that were very strongly held with very little time. And then from the governance perspective, they saw contributors confusing what work and value means. You can do meaningful work and generate value, but you can also be doing work as an honest actor and still not provide any value whatsoever to the community. So in order to solve this, we've enacted what we call the end game plan. It's a massive reorganization and restructuring of not only the organization, but also on the technical side. And without going too much into every single detail that encapsulates it.
00:05:19.658 - 00:06:07.524, Speaker A: From my personal perspective, the most important thing is the idea of separation of concerns. This idea that you as an individual, you can contribute to an area effectively without necessitating knowing the entirety of the organization at any point in time and separating tasks and activities. So we have, now we're in a pre game phase, as it's called, essentially bootstrapping the system. But this is essentially what we're looking for on the end state. We have people making the rules, deliberating on guidelines and frameworks. We have people executing those rules and other people enforcing those rules. And finally, we have people that are going to be working these rules, and this is what we're going to be focusing next.
00:06:07.524 - 00:06:46.614, Speaker A: As you can see, I sprinkle AI everywhere. It could be thought as a gimmick, but truthfully, this is a very important topic for us. Which actually merits an entire talk for itself. So, on the people working within those rules, we have something called ecosystem actors, that you can think about them as service providers and then subdaos. So let me jump into subdaos. You can think about subdaos as a microcosm of makerdao, a smaller version of an organization. I like to think it as levels within inception.
00:06:46.614 - 00:07:30.404, Speaker A: The deeper you go, the slower time goes. And that's where I'm sitting, the bottom layer, working on my specific domain. And the idea is that someone else doesn't necessarily need to come to that level to understand the value I'm providing to the community. They should be able to abstract this away and be on a high level and get the benefit, understand the benefit that is coming from this. So at inception, we're launching with this specific set of subdaos, I'm going to focus on the lower four, which essentially have the same mandate, and therefore are competing for this, which is the allocation of capital. So I am part of Phoenix Labs. We are an ecosystem actor.
00:07:30.404 - 00:08:28.224, Speaker A: We are helping bootstrap subdao number two in order to do this. We are one of many ecosystem actors that we are developing a product called Spark protocol. The important thing to know on the subdao level is you're really looking at a limited scoped project. You're looking at a profit seeking organization, meaning that accountability is permeated everywhere. You're also looking at not only spark, but also multiple products and multiple ecosystem actors or service providers actually contributing to this. The benefit that we're hoping to get from this is that we de risk maker core. We simplify what the governance decisions happening at that high level that have high impact and far reaching consequences.
00:08:28.224 - 00:08:59.440, Speaker A: And this also allows us, us as participants within a subdao, to move much faster. Experiment. And what I want to touch next is collaborate. And this is a big point. Spark, sorry, maker has always had a culture of building an in house. It made sense, an exception. There weren't really many DeFi blocks when we needed to have verifiable price feeds.
00:08:59.440 - 00:09:37.040, Speaker A: We had to build an oracle team, which is now spun off as chronic collapse. When we had to do risk assessment of new collaterals, we needed to build a risk team, which is now spun off as block Analytica. This has served as well and created one of the most prominent DeFi protocols in existence. But nowadays, the ecosystem has exploded and matured in such a way that we're just doing a disservice to us and the entire ecosystem, not trying to actually collaborate with everyone. Within it. So spark on a product level is a landing platform. You can borrow dai against your collateral.
00:09:37.040 - 00:10:29.084, Speaker A: There's nothing that innovative there. But what really is this notion of this ethos of collaboration? We already started working with some of the top players in the ecosystem, all working towards a single goal of making this the future of DeFi. And we'll continue to innovate and bring new features and ways of interacting with financial products in a permissionless way. So to give you a few numbers, we just launched last month. Within that, the credit line that maker governance approved was fully utilized. This led subsequently to make a governance proving an increase of it. Next week, something that you're going to start hearing a lot about is the DSR die savings rate.
00:10:29.084 - 00:11:20.440, Speaker A: The important thing to note for spark is that the rate at which you're borrowing, meaning that it has nothing to do with utilization. And it's what we like to say, it's predictable rate, because although it changes, it changes through governance decisions that are fully transparent and give you time to actually react and understand what's going to happen with your position. And again, towards the idea of collaboration, we're finally back at sponsoring hackathons this time around. This weekend, we're encouraging hackers to build liquidation bots, automations, work on Ux, and also analytics. And let me come back to the DSR. This is a module that was always present in maker. It's simply always set at 0.1%.
00:11:20.440 - 00:12:15.144, Speaker A: We set it to 1% at the start of the year. Again, nothing that interesting about that, but probably next week, if executive votes passes through, it will become 3.5%, which this becomes the risk free rate in tradfi. So again, in my opinion, this will become the risk free rate in DeFi as well, sending shockwaves to the entire ecosystem. So a big point here is this is a module that you have to deposit Dai into someone from the community, another collaborator, they created a tokenized version of this called Savingsdai Osdai. And now in Spark, there's the ability to easily interface and swap in and out without having to interact with the DSR. So we want to start focusing on building value and bringing this impact to the community at large.
00:12:15.144 - 00:12:48.884, Speaker A: To finally say that we're hoping that everyone should collaborate with us, we're fully open to talking. Here's my contact details. Please find me around during the conference, and please do check out our forum. Trust me, it's now simpler and cleaner, and we're hoping that you want to come on board with us. Thank you. Sorry, questions? Yes, sir. So you mentioned the dice.
00:12:48.884 - 00:13:37.496, Speaker A: So your question is, given that we increasing the DSR to 3.5%, how does that get transmitted through the ecosystem? Right. How is it generated? Is it generated by actually getting bonds somehow? So this is coming from the allocator Daos allocating capital to. Yes. Treasury bills providing decentralized collateral lending. And this gets averaged out into a rate that then gets passed on to the DAO users. I might be blind, but I think we're.
00:13:37.496 - 00:13:41.544, Speaker A: Our questions. No. Perfect. Great. Thank you very much again. Bye.
