00:00:13.960 - 00:00:49.410, Speaker A: Welcome to Unlayered, the show where we explore next generation blockchains. I'm your host, Saul, alongside my co host Dave. And today we're joined by Kyle, CEO of Hedgehog. Kyle's been working on this project for the past few years and has an extensive background in finance, a self taught programmer, and has now dived into the world of prediction markets. And this is a very big category, an emerging category in crypto, especially in an election year. And the rise of polymarket, which is the juggernaut in the prediction market space. If you look at their chart of volume, they've gone kind of exponential in the last three months.
00:00:49.410 - 00:01:14.520, Speaker A: They're getting picked up by mainstream news outlets as a source of truth, a truth machine. In a way. I think it's a really interesting category. And now we want to dive into hedgehog, which is taking a lot of the similar approaches that Polymarket has done. Similar markets brought it to Solana and just talk about that space and talk about your experiences building this product. Kyle, thanks for joining us.
00:01:15.140 - 00:01:20.280, Speaker B: Yeah, I appreciate you guys reaching out. It's great to be here and always love talking about prediction markets.
00:01:21.190 - 00:01:57.200, Speaker A: Yeah, they're, they're one of the most, I think, compelling uses of crypto because you can permissionlessly make a market and essentially people put their money where their mouth is, so to speak. And, you know, oftentimes this produces insights that normally isn't captured by maybe it's media outlets that have other incentives to showcase different stories or maybe hide the truth. So I'm curious, you've been working on this actually for a while. How did you first get interested in prediction markets? I mean, they weren't always this kind of popular across mainstream, although they've been experimented with for a while now.
00:01:58.940 - 00:02:38.632, Speaker B: Yeah. So I actually happened to sort of stumble upon them. I went full time in crypto at a vc incubator, and Hedgehog was actually one of the projects that they were starting with the original founder. And so I was just kind of put onto the Hedgehog team when the project was being started as almost in an operational role. So just kind of picking up the pieces wherever they needed me to step in. And about a year in, the founder wanted to go back and actually get his PhD and I guess maybe just wasn't super into crypto and things like that. We were also starting to go into the bear market at the time.
00:02:38.632 - 00:03:52.330, Speaker B: It was very NFT driven on Solana and so I loved the space. I was, you know, fully in on nfts at the time and just really enjoyed the communities. So he kind of handed it over to me, and I took the reins from there, and we tried some other things. Going into the bear market and not seeing a ton of defi activity or monetary trading per se, other than with nfts on Solana, it was definitely tough to get going. In addition to the regulatory side of things, where there was a lot of uncertainty and being in the US, it was kind of a pain point for us as well. And so we did try some other sort of free to play models that were still along the lines of prediction markets and how do we collect data? How do we get data on the outcome or sentiment for things? And so we did a polling mobile app that would reward users for providing insights and data as well. And then towards the end of last year, more notably at breakpoint, when a couple of tokens were starting to be announced, and then suddenly airdrops picked up on Solana, and now there was TVL and volume and trading that started happening.
00:03:52.330 - 00:04:31.440, Speaker B: We went back to our roots, which were classic prediction markets, and started putting up some markets in November, December, and really went heavy starting in January, and saw that there was some interest, especially going into an election year. That's what happened back in 2020. And so we've been just pushing and building and iterating on new market types since then, just sort of seeing what users might want to trade, how they might want to trade, and seeing if there's other models that we can start to play around with just because of some of the issues that you run into with classic prediction markets.
00:04:32.500 - 00:05:06.890, Speaker A: What is your take on the comparison between prediction markets and meme coins, which in some sense, they kind of serve the same purpose, but in some senses, they're mechanically very, very different. One has a binary outcome, one has kind of unlimited upside, but one has very defined parameters for what a winning case is. And the other, it's kind of just up to pop culture and what have you. How do you see regular people delineating between these two products, which I think have some overlap, but also are quite different?
00:05:08.750 - 00:06:08.122, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that prediction markets, in the sense of a binary option style, where there's a resolution or an outcome, are in a way easier for non crypto native people to also grasp, which is why you see polymarket getting cited for the odds of an event happening. People can kind of understand the context, they can understand the data, and they can actually gather insights from that. Whereas if you look at a bowdoin or tremp meme coin, it's like, okay, this is trading at 100 million market cap. What does that mean? Just a static data point of that doesn't really tell you anything about the election. And even when Biden drops out of. Is that good for a bowdoin joke meme coin or is that bad for the meme coin? And it's really up to the traders, right? If people start dumping it, I guess it's bad. So you don't actually really know until those start trading.
00:06:08.122 - 00:06:44.980, Speaker B: And so I think the interesting thing with classic prediction markets is that you can actually look to them to see people that are actually putting money on the line. What do they think the implied odds of something happening are? You, and so you can, I guess, actually get data from them, whereas I look at meme coins, more of a trading vehicle, and you're just speculating on how can I make a profit. But you're not really able to get necessarily other insights from that other than other people agree with what I think the sentiment is, at least for this momentary point in time.
00:06:46.040 - 00:07:10.390, Speaker C: I'd love just to rewind a little bit and go back to the history of prediction markets. Did they exist pre crypto? It was obviously part of the Ethereum whitepaper. It was mentioned as one of the potential use cases. Have they existed pre crypto? I know that there's some regulated versions as well now in the US, obviously non crypto versions. So what's the lay of the land with prediction markets to date?
00:07:10.970 - 00:08:00.622, Speaker B: Yeah, so I guess my high level understanding was predict. It was one of the more non crypto production markets that were available and they found a little loophole to operate within the US, at least for a period of time, and more recently have had to not allow us participation anymore. And then more recently we've seen prediction markets with Kalchi, which is a fully us regulated KYC type thing. So it'd be similar to setting up a brokerage account. You can set up an account with Cauchy in order to trade various things. I believe that each market there is set up as its own futures market. So they have to get CFTC approval for each market that they put up and that sort of situation.
00:08:00.622 - 00:08:45.930, Speaker B: So it is by the book a little bit more cumbersome to get things up. And then as far as crypto goes, being in the Ethereum whitepaper augur, I think is one of the biggest, more well known on chain prediction markets. It was obviously a little clunky. I think thats partially because my understanding is markets werent originally denominated in USDC. Now you have two variables at play where you have the asset that youre using to speculate on these prediction markets changing in value on top of the markets themselves moving around, it took a while to settle. It wasn't instant. It's evolved from there.
00:08:45.930 - 00:08:53.710, Speaker B: Then. Now we obviously have polymarket, which is gaining a lot of traction, and obviously.
00:08:53.750 - 00:09:07.690, Speaker C: Hedgehog now on Solana, do we know the differences? I suppose in terms of volumes between the regulated versions and then the deregulated versions in crypto, who's doing more volume at the moment?
00:09:08.940 - 00:09:54.244, Speaker B: Yeah. So I think this is kind of hard to look into and I think some ambiguity around this. If you look at all the platforms, they report volumes a little bit differently. So I haven't paid too much attention. But for example, if you go to Cauchy, they report it based on, I want to say, either contracts or shares or something. And so I don't know exactly how they counted and what the dollar value is. And then similarly with Polymarket, I know on their site they show dollar values, but I also am not sure how they count those because there's markets that are priced at zero one cents that are doing 3.5
00:09:54.244 - 00:10:32.008, Speaker B: million in volume. What I've been told by other people is that their volume is actually counting every share traded as a dollar being traded. So if you think of it that way, like if you have a market where someone's trading one share, but that one share is a 10th of a penny, it's not really a dollar of volume, it's a 10th of a penny of volume. So you're inflating that dollar volume by a factor of 100. So I don't know if the dollar value is actually true on polymarket, but I don't know if it's not true. I don't want to be quoted on that. That's what I've been told by other people that trade on the platform.
00:10:32.008 - 00:11:22.020, Speaker B: I've never personally traded on polymarket, so I'm actually not sure there. But when I hear people saying there was $500 million traded on a market in one month, that does seem like quite a bit of money for prediction markets, which if it is, then that's fantastic. I would love for that to be the case because that gives hedgehog something to aspire to, to be able to drive that much volume in a single market within a month. But I think it's just how people are counting these, because at the end of the day, if you are trading shares, if people are holding those shares and the market resolves, you can claim $1 for every share that you hold. That is correct. So maybe that's how they're counting the volume. But as far as actual nominal value, there's a lot of, I guess, contention there.
00:11:22.560 - 00:11:52.700, Speaker C: Yeah, because obviously you can't assume that everyone's going to win when half or whatever won't. So it makes sense. And just wondering, I mean, Sal talked about it a little bit in his intro, but traditional betting sites, I know betting is illegal as far as I'm saying in America, but traditional betting sites, they do also predict who's going to be the winner of the elections. Is there some difference that's going on here with prediction markets compared to traditional betting markets?
00:11:54.630 - 00:13:18.314, Speaker B: I think at a high level, no, but I think it would ultimately come down to, I guess, how they're structuring it versus how us or polymarket is structuring their markets. But at a high level, if there are sites that do allow that, such as through a draftkings or fanduel type market, I know that there are certain markets that they are and aren't allowed to do. A lot of it has to do with like is it a skill based market? And that's probably dependent on the question and how the question is structured. So I think that's kind of been the biggest crux of like the regulatory side of things, especially in the US, is, you know, what markets can you actually put up? How can you structure them? So it's more of a skill based outcome rather than just like pure gambling. And then I know even if it is considered pure gambling, they might be able to do it in certain states or in Vegas, at specific places, you might be able to place those types of bets. But at the end of the day, it does seem like most are effectively predicting the outcome, whether you're getting fixed odds or odds that are tradable. And I think that's the differentiator with a lot of prediction markets is that you can trade in and out of these shares, whereas if you're taking a bet on a draftkings, you know, when you look at traditional sports betting, it's really like they're giving you odds and you can take that bet now and then.
00:13:18.314 - 00:13:32.130, Speaker B: I know with like parlays sometimes you can cash out or sell that position early. So I actually, I'm not sure if they offer that or have that for, you know, election markets with those more tradfi type institutions.
00:13:32.250 - 00:13:45.890, Speaker C: Yeah, because I know you can definitely cash out early, as you say. But I think as well, there's the piece that the house is offering the odds in a lot of cases, certainly in the UK, rather than it just being like a market based odds.
00:13:47.030 - 00:13:56.170, Speaker A: Let's talk a bit about hedgehog itself. How would you describe the product and perhaps differentiation versus some of the bigger players in this space?
00:13:57.670 - 00:14:56.706, Speaker B: Yeah, right now, our classic prediction markets that most people think of where you're trading yes and no shares, and if it resolves correctly, you can claim $1 for every share. Our markets are an Amm style and they are freely tradable up until the close date when they are resolved. And the way we're approaching it at a high level to take a step back, is that we are aiming to create a fully permissionless and on chain way to create, participate and resolve markets. So we really don't want to have ownership of any of that flow at our end goal. And so we're trying to figure that out. And those three steps, I'd say the biggest pain points are the creation of markets and the resolution of markets. And so what we've kind of also looked at more recently is potential other market types.
00:14:56.706 - 00:16:21.332, Speaker B: So we don't necessarily want to get rid of the classic markets, which is what you would find on polymarket. And, and with our amm markets where you can trade in and out of those yes and no shares. But these other markets that we're introducing, we're calling them pooled predictions, pooled parlays and p two p markets, I guess they're slightly more akin to sports betting where you kind of have odds and you're betting at those odds, or with a pooled prediction market, it's a paramutual style market, but you're depositing and you're not actively trading these markets. And the benefit here is the two cruxes that we're trying to solve for are the creation and the resolution. And so with these markets, you can easily unwind them in the sense that you can mark them invalid and people can get their money back. And the reason that this is important is because right now, the hard part with market creation, if you do follow prediction markets, there have been quite a few poly market markets that have been very contentious when they've been getting resolved just due to ambiguity or how people are interpreting the resolution criteria. And so if you let just anybody create markets, you a might get a lot of spam or, you know, weird markets anyways, but, but the other side of it is, even if people have the best intentions, they might word something in an odd way or ask a question that doesn't really make sense.
00:16:21.332 - 00:17:33.664, Speaker B: Um, they might, you know, not have all of the details that are necessary for like, the resolution details. And then that causes a lot of problems when you go to resolve it. And so the easiest way is to be able to say, well, if the question doesn't make sense or the details are unclear, if you market invalid and you use these p, two p or paramutual style markets, people can just claim their money back and move on to the next bet. And so, worst case is that the bet just doesn't actually happen, whereas you can't really unwind things easily with a club or ammdhenna style market that is constantly traded because you would have to mark those to some price that people can pull money out at, and you still end up with winners and losers because those shares have been traded and the prices have moved and the liquidity has changed. And so that's one approach that we're trying to take, to differentiate and allow users to actually make their own markets and be able to have fund markets with friends or with communities, or just being able to sort of put it out for anybody to take the other side of it that wants to find it online, as well as let anybody resolve a market so it's not reliant.
00:17:33.792 - 00:18:00.370, Speaker A: On ourselves, can you maybe step back and walk us through mechanically? How does one, whether it's you, you guys, or a user, create a market? Let's say, for instance, just take the example of the presidential election. Who's going to win, right? You need some liquidity, and then you have people taking bets on either side. What are all the pieces here? Just so we can kind of make this a bit more concrete?
00:18:00.670 - 00:19:10.656, Speaker B: Yeah. So, I mean, the biggest things are, when you create any market, you have to obviously have the question, make sure that it's clear so that people, no matter who's looking at it, there's not really any confusion or different ways that it could be interpreted. Then it's providing the details for that as well. So trying to account for any black swan type events or random things that could happen. And I guess the way we've approached that more recently is we try to bake every possible scenario into yes or no, especially for the amm style markets, because we don't want to resolve these two invalid. And so it's more of like an example of this might just be, if you want to bet on will a team win in a sports game, there could be a black swan event, such as a game gets paused halfway through, or a game doesn't happen or gets canceled. And so what we can do with the amm style markets is we can say if the game doesn't get played at all or something happens where it can't be finished, that is part of the no side of things.
00:19:10.656 - 00:20:33.548, Speaker B: So now when you're going to participate in that market, the key is paying attention to that. So that if you are looking at the odds and you're, and you're placing a bet on either yes or no or buying those shares, you're taking that into account and accounting for that in the no odds. So that's kind of how we think about it when we're structuring the other things are having like a close date or like a resolution date, and then to the next point is setting things up so that you have to set the odds to start the market. So it's trying to get as much data about a given market to figure out where should you set the odds, so that if you are providing liquidity, the market isn't immediately going against you. Right. If you started a market right now for will Donald Trump win the election? Based on current markets and current polls, you'd probably set it at around 50 50, whereas after the unfortunate events at his rally in Pennsylvania, you might have set it at 75% just because he shot up in polls and whatnot. So it's really taking into the context of what's going on and figuring out where do you actually start the odds at? And then if you are providing liquidity to those markets, how much liquidity do you want to provide? Is there going to be a fee for the market? What is the fee priced at? And that's part of market structure as well.
00:20:33.548 - 00:21:43.692, Speaker B: So that's a lot of kind of what goes into the creation process, which is also why it is hard to have users make those markets because of all these considerations and things that can be set. Obviously, we could force setting of a lot of those things or have some sort of template that people could go by. But there are definitely a lot of aspects that can go into this and can affect how a market is actually looked at or used or how much volume goes off based on how people word things. So thats kind of on that side of things. And then for users, its looking at how much liquidity is there. What are the current odds? How much price impact will my position have? Do I want to hold this till resolution? Do I want to trade this market? So definitely lots of things to think of. I think for a novice user, the easiest way to think about these markets, at least in my mind, is really as a binary option where you're buying that yes share or that no share for a certain price with the expectation of potentially holding that market until resolution and knowing that you'll be able to claim $1 for every share.
00:21:43.692 - 00:22:47.286, Speaker B: So if you approach it that way, you can easily calculate your potential profit, how long that holding period might be. So, for example, if you're buying election market share right now, you know that you're going to be holding that until roughly November 6, probably before you can redeem it for a dollar or it to be worthless. And so that's kind of like the easy way to start thinking about it. The other way that I've seen a lot of people look at the markets for trading them is around sentiment and how sentiment might change between now and then based on are there debates coming up? Are there other rallies coming up? And could that change the sentiment for one candidate or the other? And they'll simply just trade shares based on if there's something coming that might make a candidate look better, the odds might move. And so they can make a quick, like 10% flip on buying Donald Trump shares at, selling them at. Then with Polymarket, they use an optimistic oracle. And so actually anybody can resolve those markets.
00:22:47.286 - 00:23:46.310, Speaker B: And so that's another piece that users should be mindful of, is that there has been a lot of contention around some markets based on how they're worded. If there is ambiguity there, you run that risk of could this market be resolved incorrectly? While we do want to ultimately go that route, it is tricky to solve for that, because a lot of prediction markets, theres not just an easy data feed that you can just plug into a price oracle like you can do with the price of solana or bitcoin. Some of it can come down to the resolvers opinion onto how they interpret data. And so this will probably always be a potential issue with these markets because of the type of data that you are looking at. So while they are interesting, there's a lot of these little nuances that can affect how they trade, the outcomes, how they get created, and a lot of things to kind of control for that. I think a lot of people don't always realize.
00:23:47.060 - 00:24:23.212, Speaker A: You mentioned the oracles. I remember this was a big issue with polymarket, with DJT token, where Polymarket went against what the Oracle resolved to, which was, I think it had something, whether or not the Trump team had something to do with it, some the Oracle resolved to know. Then it turned out that they did a little bit later with additional information. How do you guys handle the Oracle? Do you also use an optimistic Oracle like the UMA protocol? Or, and do you see this approach surviving long term or do you think there needs to be more innovation on that front?
00:24:23.356 - 00:25:13.850, Speaker B: Yeah. So right now our team handles resolution of markets. And so I guess my understanding is polymarketer Uma kind of does have this admin override as well. So if they need to, they can step in and basically resolve a market. We have actually built our own optimistic oracle on Solana that we plan to launch and leverage which would allow other people to resolve markets. The main reason for this is it obviously takes the burden off of our team and allows other people to play a role in this resolution process. As far as longevity of these, I think it will always be a crux of some prediction markets, and that's just because of the long tail nature of these markets.
00:25:13.850 - 00:26:02.786, Speaker B: Because I was mentioning, you don't have an oracle for some of these types of questions. So it comes down to how do you interpret the news? How does the news interpret things to begin with? How do they present it to other people? And I think the most recent contentious market that has had a little, I guess a lot of people talking about it on Twitter was recently the venezuelan elections. I think polymarket put out a tweet one way and then UMA resolved it the other way. And UMA does work. The way the optimistic oracles work is that you can propose a resolution. So anybody can go and propose a data resolution, and then if nobody disputes it, that's assumed to be correct. That's why it's an optimistic oracle.
00:26:02.786 - 00:27:14.612, Speaker B: You're optimistically assuming that the data proposed is the correct data. If it does get disputed, it goes to a vote on UMA. So people with the UMA token can then vote on whether or not that is the correct outcome or not. And so a lot of people kind of complain that these oracles, just like with Ethereum, bitcoin, Solana, you have these things where you could basically attack the, the protocol itself, because if you have enough money, you could buy enough tokens to just vote in the way that you want the outcome to go rather than how the outcome should go, which is where you almost need that admin override no matter what. Because otherwise you could have somebody attack the oracle if they just accumulate enough tokens over time. There might be better ways to solve for this in the future, I think because this is a small percentage of markets, I don't know if it's a big problem that people are working on solving, and it still might be better to have that central authority or even a multisig wallet override at the end of the day. So if the community has a ton of contention over a market, if it happens to be a bad actor, at least you can override it.
00:27:14.612 - 00:28:12.638, Speaker B: If it's just ambiguity within the user base, I don't want to say this is the easy solution, but one thing to just remember is that if you are going to be a user betting in any of these markets, just like any user that's buying crypto, because you're speculating on the price going up. Having a background in finance, I would always look at any option or stock investment as my investment can go to zero. So if you're investing in these prediction markets, you should go into it knowing that this is the oracle that might resolve the market, or this is the team that might resolve the market, or this is the multisig that might resolve the market. There is always the chance that based on the market I'm betting on, there could be ambiguity or, you know, contentions over how it should be resolved. And worst cases scenario, my investment is going to zero. So I'm not going to over invest because of those. So I should bake that into, you know, my expected value for, for the beta.
00:28:12.638 - 00:28:39.950, Speaker B: And maybe I'm overthinking it or I shouldn't think of it this way, but just because I think it's also a small percentage of markets that kind of have issues, it's not super important, I guess, to solve for, which is why I don't think we've seen much change with that. So that's why we still have seen some sort of contentious markets over the last couple of months, whether it's on poly market or even one or two markets that we've had.
00:28:40.660 - 00:29:34.616, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a difficult challenge to get through, isn't it? I just wanted to look back at the starting the markets again. Firstly, I think this is an awesome idea to have user created markets. I think if you're thinking what's going to make prediction markets get to the next level and help them really explode, and especially crypto native prediction markets to help them get a foot over the regulated versions. Yeah, I think this seems the obvious next step. So I think, well, on you guys for going for it, I was wondering for the creating markets, you were saying the difficulty in terms of choosing the odds. I was wondering if you could do a sort of pump fun type structure where you need a certain number of people to put money in and say the odds that they want to start the market at, or a certain amount of money that needs to be put in. So it could just be one person or 100 people, and then you average out the odds that they all said on a weighted version.
00:29:34.616 - 00:29:54.780, Speaker C: Just so, because I agree, if you're just like one guy and you say, oh, I reckon this is about 70%, and the bots come in just instantly wipe you down to 50%. Yeah, that would be a bit troublesome. So, yeah, I think you can definitely have a lot of fun with the structure. And to me it seems intuitive that this is the direction this needs to go. So, yeah, I just wanted to point that out.
00:29:56.200 - 00:31:01.500, Speaker B: Yeah, yeah, no, I think that approach actually would be pretty cool. And I think going back to what I was talking about with like peer to peer or paramutual style markets, you could do something like this where you still have the implied odds of something happening. So the way paramutual works is people deposit on either yes or no, and based on how much money is deposited on each side kind of shows the implied odds. And so you could have a pumped up fund type situation where you could set up the market and you could deposit money on one side, but until x amount of funds are deposited overall or on each side of the market doesn't launch, and that way you have other people that kind of feed into setting those, quote unquote, initial odds. And then it still gets tricky just because if you're letting people set custom questions, that can still be tricky. But like I mentioned, the beauty of the P two P and paramutual stuff is that worst case is you market invalid and everybody just gets funds returned to them. Best case is the market kicks off and goes live and it's tradable and you can win some money.
00:31:01.500 - 00:31:33.610, Speaker B: So, yeah, the approach we're taking to start is that we are trying to create a form or do it based on crypto prices, sports, things where you can pull in the data and you just kick off a market with very little input from the user themselves. That way they can spin up their own markets without really having to think about the question and how it will be resolved or where it will get resolved. And that's what we're hoping to have live within the next month or two.
00:31:33.910 - 00:32:43.482, Speaker A: Preston, so with all this rising interest in prediction markets, a few weeks ago, maybe it was just a couple of weeks ago, Kyle Zimani of multicoin put out an interesting thread because they're just seeing a lot of deal flow in this category about their take on prediction markets. And it seems like the TLDR from their analysis is the key is regularity with respect to things that people can bet on. He mentions that DraftKings and Fanduel spend a lot on customer acquisition and they basically lose money on these small dollar bets. The idea is you want to find people that are going to eventually bet 10,000 plus over their lifetime value. And so with prediction markets, it seems like they haven't found that PMF, with respect to events that happen regularly, the closest thing is just the election cycle, which happens every four years, but that doesn't seem like it's durable enough to sustainably grow user base. So what is your reaction to some of this analysis? And do you see a particular market segment that could be well served by prediction markets?
00:32:43.666 - 00:33:16.298, Speaker B: Yeah, I 100% agree with this. And I replied to him with, we're trying. Like, I'm definitely thinking about that. And so I guess in a similar mindset, we've been just calling them internally evergreen markets. So markets that you can kind of have all year round that don't rely on, for example, an election cycle. And it's really like we know that, you know, after November 5, what's next, right. Because right now the majority of poly market in the news is around election stuff.
00:33:16.298 - 00:33:58.890, Speaker B: It's nothing else. And that's what most people are talking about as well. And I think they're exploring other things, but it's, how can you keep going with that? And so I know some things that you can kind of do regularly are movies or album releases. I think the quote unquote low hanging fruit is trying to tap into the sports market. But if you do go that route, how do you differentiate yourself? Or are you trying to build out the exact same thing that fanduel and draftking has? Right. The difference is if you do go down that route, then you have those players to compete with. And so you either need a differentiator or it could be a tough uphill battle.
00:33:58.890 - 00:35:07.594, Speaker B: And then I think the other thing that we have in crypto is speculating on crypto itself. People like clearly different ways to bet on things. And so whether it's looking at prediction markets as almost like a binary option market for crypto prices, maybe that's an evergreen, or markets that can be all times of the year that can just regularly happen and resolve on a daily basis, weekly basis, monthly basis. So these are all things that we're looking at as well as to how do we expand into them. And so I'd say sports and crypto prices are kind of our launching points, and we'll kind of go from there to see what people are interested in. And were hoping that the other side of that is also just if we can figure out a way to streamline more of those custom markets and let people make their own markets, whether its betting on things with friends, but using our platform, I think that would be fun as well. And to that point ill just briefly touch on the markets that we are looking at are basically pooled parlays.
00:35:07.594 - 00:35:59.286, Speaker B: Its effectively parlays but with a much larger audience of people. So you're all paying a flat entry fee, but then you're predicting the winner of every NFL game for a given week. And if you have the most correct predictions, you either win the entire pot or split it with the other people that have the most correct predictions. So that's something you can do for all sports all times of the year on any sort of cadence. And you could do a similar thing with crypto prices, right? You could say, all right, on Monday everybody puts in their, their predictions for what range will Sol, ETH and bitcoin be trading at on Friday? And then come Friday, whoever has the most correct predictions would win that bet. So it's just a different style, a different way for traders to get exposure to the market, a different way to just have fun if it's a one small pool. And again, back to the permissionless nature.
00:35:59.286 - 00:36:21.650, Speaker B: We're hoping to sort of set these types of markets up as well where anybody could basically go in and one click generate the market every week so it doesn't have to be us and potentially give the creator of the market a fee for all of the volume that it drives. So it gives them an incentive to also promote and share that market with other people and just try to continue to drive traffic that way.
00:36:22.590 - 00:36:32.610, Speaker C: I saw someone suggest esports as well, maybe as a vertical sort of gets overlooked by the major betting platforms and obviously has a huge following. So yeah, I thought that was also interesting.
00:36:33.810 - 00:37:35.060, Speaker B: Yeah, for sure. I think it's really just anything that has some sort of a regular cadence being able to apply it. And I think it also helps that if you go the route of something that does have already predefined rules and outcomes and dates known, it's much easier to make markets around because a you can pull in sports or esports feeds from an ESPN, for example, where you don't have to generate all of these markets. And then same thing with the resolution side, you don't really have to rely on an optimistic oracle. You can rely on actual data from an ESPN type API endpoint, and then you don't run into the issues of is somebody resolving it correctly. So there are definitely benefits with finding those types of markets and then offering long tail markets that people may want to just have fun with, such as movies or music or you know what, Kol will win in the influencer boxing matches at breakpoint. Right.
00:37:35.060 - 00:37:49.068, Speaker B: So being able to offer those as well alongside of those other sports, I think just adds a little bit of differentiator that a draftkings doesn't have. Right. You're not able to bet on your friends at a breakpoint boxing match, and.
00:37:49.084 - 00:38:28.052, Speaker C: Then other people do talk furthermore about the risks of prediction markets. I think the classic one people use is if you're starting prediction markets around when certain people will die, then maybe it encourages people to kill them, basically. And then there was a tweet from Hasu like yesterday or the day before, and I didn't understand it. So I'm putting it out there and maybe you'll understand it. He said, from a mechanism design perspective, I personally see the mass adoption of prediction markets as a threat to democracy and an accelerant towards plutarchy. So he seemed pretty sure about it. And, yeah, I'm sorry, I can't really give you much more detail than that because I did go into the comments to try and understand where his point was and people seem to grasp it.
00:38:28.052 - 00:38:35.200, Speaker C: But. But, yeah. Any thoughts on any further existential risks posed by prediction markets?
00:38:36.620 - 00:39:13.580, Speaker B: Yeah, it is interesting. So that tweet by Hasu, it is kind of similar. So when you start looking at prediction markets and also using futarchy, so basically, prediction markets are being able to bet on what will eventually be a known outcome. So you're trying to predict what will actually happen. When you look at futarchy, it's basically trying to use markets to determine what is the best outcome. So it's more of like a sentiment market. And so metadata is what that is.
00:39:13.580 - 00:39:47.258, Speaker B: So they're definitely adjacent. And so I think it's plutarchy if I'm saying that. Right? Yeah. So that's kind of like, it's using, like, wealth, right, to do things. And that's where, you know, when it, when it comes to crypto and, like, daos, right, any type of dow proposal, it always comes down to voting with a token, and those tokens cost money. So you end up with a lot of voting power in the hands of wealthy people. And so, like, I understand what he's saying where with prediction markets, I have seen just interesting takes and tweets wherever.
00:39:47.258 - 00:40:38.926, Speaker B: It's like, okay, how much is being predicted versus how much is what we're predicting driving outcomes as well. And so it really depends on how you look at a lot of these things. And it's similar. Even back when I was working in finance, I was a prop trader for about two and a half years and traded us and canadian equities. And you can see how easily stocks, let alone crypto, with some low market caps, can be manipulated by one or two individuals, whether it's a hedge fund, um, or just an individual that has a lot of money. And so when you look at that type of stuff like that can definitely come into play when you're looking at a few turkey type governance system or prediction markets, uh, where you can just drive the price of a market, and then people are like, oh, this, this is going to be the outcome. So maybe I'm not going to go vote because Donald Trump has a 90% chance of winning.
00:40:38.926 - 00:41:15.984, Speaker B: So if I was going to vote for Kamala, why even show up to go vote if he has a 90% chance? So just because somebody, like, starts to think that an outcome is so high likely to actually happen, it might influence their own decision to do or not do something. And so I guess that is an interesting take in. And so I think it just comes down to, I guess, how they end up getting used in the future. But that's also why I find them fascinating. Right. It's being able to just look at data in a more numerical way. I feel like that's just kind of how I've always operated.
00:41:15.984 - 00:41:39.390, Speaker B: Coming from a background in finance, always being fascinated by how the banking system works, even if it is rigged in a lot of ways. But that's part of the system that we're in. Right. So you kind of have to play by those rules, unfortunately. And so if you can have a way to experiment and play around with that, I always think it's fascinating. And when you can bring data into the mix, even better.
00:41:40.290 - 00:42:13.240, Speaker A: By the way, do you have a view on why we haven't seen the emergence of betting on, you mentioned media like movies and music. What about also just general content creators, people on YouTube or even Twitter, for instance? I'm hearing about startups in crypto starting to attack these verticals for prediction markets. But, you know, these, this has all been around for a long time. Is there a reason why we just never seen that level of fandom for betting for media versus sports?
00:42:13.540 - 00:42:54.832, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, I'm not really sure. I don't know if I could give a great answer there in my mind. And I guess, like, my take not to be like a Debbie Downer or, you know, try to say like, oh, this will never happen. But I think it's when you get to these long tail markets, there's just not a lot of liquidity or interest or information available or expertise, I guess. So people having that information. And so if you have one or two experts, they're going to exploit all of the people that don't know much. And if those people are exploited the first time, they're probably not going to come back because it's a losing market for them.
00:42:54.832 - 00:44:07.790, Speaker B: Right? Think of it, if you could play one on one pickup basketball for money, and the only way to play was for money, you're not going to go against LeBron James knowing that you're going to lose every single time. You're going to stop playing against him because every single game you're just going to lose and lose money. So you're going to say, well, I'm not going to play anymore because I'm losing money. And so I think what we are starting to see is that we're shifting to potentially other market styles where how can we still make it interesting and fun? One thing that we did experiment with when we first launched back in 2021 were called no loss competitions. And so I think these could actually be more interesting for these types of long tail markets where you're not actually losing money. But now that there is actual and active Defi on Solana, an actual yield and interest rates, what you can do is you could basically be playing for the interest. And I've seen some other startups that are talking about these types of things, maybe not necessarily in this context, but for other applications, but it's similar to staking with validators.
00:44:07.790 - 00:45:09.958, Speaker B: You're never losing your soul, but you're earning interest on that soul. If we can apply that same type of logic to prediction markets, then what we can do is we can say, well, if you just deposit USDC or deposit soul, you can still place your one prediction on what you think the outcome is. And so if you're on the correct side, then you get a percentage of the interest that's earned, but nobody actually loses money. And so I think these no loss competitions could be a more interesting way to explore these. And there was actually, I don't know if they're still around, but I think it was called Yotta bank, and they kind of did the same thing where they sort of gamified the yield because interest had gone so low, especially in the US, that putting your money in a savings account, who cares about 1% or half a percent, its basically nothing. So instead what they did is they took all of the interest into one pool and they would basically run a lottery. So then every month say they have 10 billion in savings at their bank.
00:45:09.958 - 00:45:57.812, Speaker B: Even if you only had $5 in a savings account, you had the chance of winning the lottery of all of the accrued interest for that $10 billion. So it's like a much bigger pool that you're playing for and you're basically just giving up that half a percent yield because half a percent yield on $5 or $5,000 is pretty much irrelevant. And so I think that might be a more interesting market for some of these long tail things. So you can still kind of get that gamified, fun gameplay without risking your money. But based on the amount you have deposited, you basically just have a higher percentage of that yield that you would get back, if you are correct. So I could kind of see that playing out just because as we've seen in crypto right now, people are very pvp. Meme coins are pvp, NFTs are pvp.
00:45:57.812 - 00:46:08.160, Speaker B: You're taking money from somebody else in order to sell that meme coin or NFT at a higher price. And so if you're constantly losing, you're probably going to stop playing at some point.
00:46:08.790 - 00:46:42.484, Speaker C: It's a great concept that because especially the election, presidential election going on, people are going to have their money tied up for months and months and months. They could have just put in Sol that could have been converted to an LST and then, yeah, you could have just been playing for, what is it, 9% yield? So maybe they put in for six months. It could have been 4.5% yield that they're playing for instead without risking actually losing the soul. So I think it's a great idea and definitely something you should pursue. Obviously, the elephant in the room is polymarket. They are dominating the industry at the moment.
00:46:42.484 - 00:46:54.400, Speaker C: But I saw a tweet yesterday and someone said, I can't help but feel that polymarket is this cycle's opensea and there's a blur equivalent out there that will successfully vampire attack it. So what's going to make that hedgehog?
00:46:58.100 - 00:47:43.868, Speaker B: Yeah, I definitely see that. So I think right now we don't currently have any outright incentives to draw people to trade. So, for example, with Blur, we sort of saw people knowing that they were accruing these points for a token eventually. And so I think right now I think people are speculating on will there be a token for polymarket I think people are also being paid incentives, like they have incentives for providing liquidity to their markets. And so we unfortunately don't have the funds to do that. So we are not paying out to incentivize liquidity. So we are looking into two ways to do that.
00:47:43.868 - 00:48:25.190, Speaker B: But we are also looking at alternative market types. And so we're hoping that if we can also draw interest in these alternative market types while also being a more. I guess I don't want to say they're not, but I'm not exactly sure how their system is built. But from what I've heard from other people using the platform is you have to deposit into their platform and then you can trade in the markets. So I'm not exactly sure what the context is with, is what's on chain, what's off chain. But I guess we do like the fact that we take pride in the fact that for our markets, you connect your walleth and you're buying those like yes, tokens on chain. Like you're just interacting with the programs on Solana.
00:48:25.190 - 00:49:12.798, Speaker B: Same thing with our pooled predictions, our pooled parlays that are coming out in the peer to peer markets. It's all just connect your wallet and you're interacting directly with those programs on Solana. We're not personally escrowing your programs in one of our owned accounts and you don't have to request some withdrawal. If you win, you claim from the program itself. And so we're hoping that people like the way that that's structured. We have integrated yield into the USDC that's being deposited for our pooled markets and our pooled parlays and our peer to peer markets. And the goal is because they are more short term, the interest for the specific user for that short time period isn't that interesting.
00:49:12.798 - 00:50:09.640, Speaker B: However, we do plan to use that interest to basically give it back to the users in other manners, which is we are actually going to be introducing referrals, which is basically adding a referral to a blink itself. We're very interested in love blinks. We're hoping that by bringing markets directly to people on the X timeline, it will drive more interest. And then on top of that, if people use your blink to enter a market, you'll be able to get a percentage of rewards directly back to that wallet. That is the referral itself. So just kind of more incentive mechanisms that go directly back to the user and just try to get that as our flywheel that gets things going and then also leverage other potential things that I can't quite speak to yet, but yeah, we have some things in the pipeline that are coming.
00:50:10.020 - 00:50:26.272, Speaker C: Got it. Mum's the word. I think the Solana piece as well is the other huge one. You've been here since 2021. Loads of people are on Solana already. Whereas the big barrier for me ive never used polymarket is its on Polygon. And yeah, I just dont have any funds there and its too much of a pain to get there.
00:50:26.272 - 00:50:37.208, Speaker C: So I do think if like Solana, its likely that there is going to be a big prediction market at some point and youre currently the market leader. So I think thats your other sort of feather in your cap.
00:50:37.384 - 00:51:30.768, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean we absolutely love the Solana community. Theres just better and better tools that are coming out every day. We are hoping to also drive the side of how can I get my friend that's not crypto native onto the platform? So we have integrated tip link. I know you guys had them on the podcast a little while ago. And so we have that Google login option with Tiplink. The next barrier there, which is not really our core product, but we're constantly looking for is if somebody does want to log in with Google, how do they then get funds to that Google Solana wallethood? Can we pay their transaction fees in Sol so that they only need USDC or do they still have to know to purchase USDC and Sol? And thats still a little bit of a hurdle. And it is a hurdle because we are fully on chain.
00:51:30.768 - 00:52:28.110, Speaker B: So if we are doing things in USDC, you still need SOl for the transaction fee or for rent for the accounts for those tokens when you buy them. So we are looking at that. But obviously were starting with the assumption that the first core users of the platform will be people that potentially enjoy prediction markets and or sports betting, esports crypto in the future and will want to just connect a wallet and then go from there. So they already have that solar USDC and know how to swap it and do all of those things. It's obviously the low hanging fruit for user acquisition is to go with on chain users already. But yeah, I think the Solana community, and especially with the growth and people actually that have used the chain and see how easy and smooth the user experience is compared to some other l two s or ethereum, we think that that definitely gives us an advantage as well.
00:52:28.850 - 00:52:48.240, Speaker A: Speaking of barriers, what about mobile? I think that's another missing link in this, in this betting market prediction market space is the lack of, at least as far as I understand, mobile options to use these products. What's your take on that? Do you guys have a strategy there?
00:52:49.220 - 00:53:51.130, Speaker B: Yeah, with our polling app a while ago, we did build out a mobile app. So we did go through the whole app store process. And the hardest part to solve for there is really that you really can't have a native mobile app for any of this stuff. If you do, you would effectively just be a KYC platform that has whatever license for whatever country your app is available in, and you would have to have all that stuff in place, otherwise you're going to get rejected from the app store. You can't necessarily go that route unless you are fully regulated and can show the Apple App Store, the Google Play Store, those things, which is what the Solana Dapp store was trying to solve for. However, again, then your target audience is also only people that have a saga that have that Dapp store installed. For us, it's really just designing our platform to make sure that all aspects are mobile optimized as well.
00:53:51.130 - 00:54:46.882, Speaker B: The goal is that if you do still have a Phantom wallet or Soulflare wallet, or if you do want to use the tip link option, you could just load our website in your wallet browser, or just on the browser on the phone and be able to log in and still do everything that you would do on desktop. So we definitely optimize and make sure that we include mobile designs for all of the pages. That way people can still use it on their phone. I guess the next steps would be really going for like a progressive web app. So you could effectively bookmark our site as an app on your phone just for easy access, but I think we could deep link into your wallet still. So that is a possibility. It's just a matter of where are the users, where do we see most of them logging in? And we definitely try to optimize based on those metrics that we're seeing.
00:54:47.066 - 00:55:02.550, Speaker A: Yeah, that makes sense. I think we covered quite a bit of ground here with respect to hedgehog and the broader prediction market space. Is there anything else we should be looking forward to, or are there any other topics you wanted to cover?
00:55:04.770 - 00:56:01.456, Speaker B: No, I think we're just excited for the new market types that we're putting out. So we're hoping that we're targeting that shorter timeframe, faster type of trading, which I think a lot of people are accustomed to with meme coins and even nfts where they're either flipping or constantly trading them. And so we are definitely trying to leverage blinks, referrals within those blink links and then new market types. So as I mentioned, the one that we're really excited to roll out is our pooled parlays. And so we're aiming to get those live for the NFL season where basically you would have those weekly parlays where you can predict all of the games and then move that into other things as well. Whether it's UFC fighting, where there's eight matches in a day, you could do a one day parlay just for UFC. Whether it's crypto prices daily or weekly, whether it's esports, I think there's a lot of applications for that.
00:56:01.456 - 00:56:26.420, Speaker B: So we just want people that might be interested in those pooled parlay type markets. So just definitely keep an eye out for that. And then if people have any feedback, I always love just hopping on calls to talk about prediction markets, to talk about Solana, or to talk about any feedback or suggestions for the platform. So definitely reach out to myself personally or just dm the hedgehog account on Twitter.
00:56:27.480 - 00:56:36.976, Speaker A: Awesome. Well, Kyle, thank you so much for joining us and giving us the State of the union on prediction markets, on Solana and hedgehog in particular, and super excited for what's to come.
00:56:37.048 - 00:56:38.660, Speaker B: Yeah, I really appreciate the time, guys.
