00:00:00.200 - 00:00:19.894, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the daily Refuel, where we kept the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Cisano, and today's the 2 May 2022. All right, guys. Well, I haven't done that intro for two weeks now. It's been a while. It's felt like it's been a lot longer than two weeks, actually, that I've been away for not just from the refuel, but from like home in general. It's pretty crazy.
00:00:19.894 - 00:00:35.366, Speaker A: Like, I had other people say that too. It's like, oh, it feels like you've been gone forever. And I guess like if you watch the refuel, it would have felt like that since it's a daily show. So, yeah, I'm back. I think today's episode is going to be a lot longer than 30 minutes. I have so many tabs open. This is just one window here that I've got.
00:00:35.366 - 00:01:07.558, Speaker A: I didn't want to kind of like put them all on the same window because it would take me forever to go through them all. And I was going to take, I'm going to take breaks in between. I'm not going to just record for 2 hours straight, I think so. So, yeah. But I guess, like, I can start with recapping my Amsterdam experience and like, how amazing that was. Oh, it felt so good to be back at an Ethereum conference after over two years. I met so many new people, so many refuel kind of watches and newsletter readers, so many people that I had kind of like met, I guess, at other conferences, you know, two and a half years ago that have come such a long way.
00:01:07.558 - 00:01:32.118, Speaker A: And, you know, I think the biggest takeaway for me, for Devconnect was that the community has grown so, so much. It's actually amazing. Like, it wasn't just, I mean, I know ethanol was quite big as well, but from what I heard from Ethan, but it was big because of the fact that there are a lot of, kind of like everyone there. It wasn't just Ethereum community members, but it was everyone. Whereas Devconnect seemed like a much larger concentration of, like, just purely ethereum community members. And there are so many of us now. It was actually crazy.
00:01:32.118 - 00:01:55.942, Speaker A: Like, I. And the thing is, devconnect wasn't just like one venue. There was a of venues spread around the city. I went to a bunch of events. I didn't get to all of them, obviously, because there were overlapping kind of events and things like that. But I guess, like the hub was the co working space, which was in the, funny enough, the old Amsterdam stocky stock trading kind of like buildings that's kind of like how there's still Wall street people kind of like go there. It's not really, you know, that thing where you go and trade anymore.
00:01:55.942 - 00:02:33.486, Speaker A: Obviously, it's all done on a computer, but it was kind of like that old building, which I thought was kind of funny considering, you know, crypto, like Ethereum was in that building. Right? So that was really awesome. And that cowork space was, was great. Like, I met so many people there. It was so chill. The venue was just awesome if you were there, you know what I mean? I don't have any pictures to show you guys, but I'm sure you saw some from Twitter during the last kind of like two weeks as well there. So other than that, I think my main takeaways from Devconnect, besides, you know, the fact that the community had grown so much, is that there are so many interesting problems being worked on within the Ethereum community right now that it's hard to kind of like, not be engaged, you know? I know the price has been whatever over the last two weeks.
00:02:33.486 - 00:03:06.070, Speaker A: I'm going to talk about that at the end of today's episode. I'm going to go on one of my bullish rants again, because there are so many things to be bullish about, guys. And I think, like, if you're not bullish at this point, just because the price has gone down a little bit, I mean, I think the price is probably around the same as it was when I kind of like, lasted the refuel. I can't remember exactly what it was two weeks ago, but yeah, anyway, I'm going to get a go into a bullish rant there. But yeah, I think, like, there's just so many interesting problems being worked on within a theorem from like L2 stuff to me, v to defy, especially. I mean, there's so much innovation happening in Defi. People just kind of like sleeping on it.
00:03:06.070 - 00:03:47.052, Speaker A: Obviously, NFTs are still a big deal and all that sort of stuff there. I guess another, another key takeaway from me for the event was that everyone just feels so energized, like it doesn't feel like a bear market at all. Like, at all. Seriously, it just feels like everyone's just bouncing off the walls with energy, wanting to solve all these issues, wanting to work on whatever they're working on, and just super excited about the future. And out of all the conversations that I had, I think, like 95% of them didn't mention price once, which is crazy, right? Like, I mean, that's the amazing thing about Ethereum, is that there are so many other things to talk about other than price. You can talk about the, uh, to other networks, I mean, especially like bitcoin. And I guess, like, at a bitcoin conference, I always wonder, like, what do they talk about? I've never been to one.
00:03:47.052 - 00:04:14.676, Speaker A: Maybe I should go to one. But, like, other than the price, there's not that much to talk about. I know they talk about lightning network, but that's a meme at this point. So it's always amazing to me that within a theory, and you can go like whole hours long conversations without mentioning the price once because you're talking about a specific thing. Like, maybe it's L2s, maybe it's meV, maybe it's NFTs. Maybe within the NFT community, you talk about price a lot more because there's a lot more speculation than building going on in that community, I guess, at this, at this stage. But, but yeah.
00:04:14.676 - 00:04:42.236, Speaker A: And I guess, like, another key takeaway for me was how many pops there was. Like, I collected so many, it was crazy because, like, people had their own, like, I met this person pop. There were these new kind of like, devices, at least new to me, where you could basically just like, tap it with your phone. And if your phone as an NFC reader, it would kind of, like, automatically pop up and you'd be able to mint that. Mint that pop. And those devices, they're like a black kind of like, device in a circle pattern with like a little symbol on it. And it was a little cards it had as well.
00:04:42.236 - 00:04:58.740, Speaker A: They're like these special cards that you could tap and you can get their power. And people just, you know, minted. Sorry. Printed out their QR codes as well. So I really liked that. I think having an alternative to QR codes is good, especially one that's as seamless. Seamless as just tapping your phone or NFC tag kind of like reads that and it pops up on your phone.
00:04:58.740 - 00:05:17.212, Speaker A: That was very, very cool. But they were everywhere. Like, seriously, everywhere, guys. Like, no matter where I went, there was a pop to collect, which I loved. I didn't collect them all, but I love that they were everywhere and people were just super excited about collecting them. So that was another kind of, like, key thing there. And I guess, lastly, just on like a non ETH related note, Amsterdam was an awesome city.
00:05:17.212 - 00:05:27.676, Speaker A: I mean, my friend had warned me that there'd be a lot of bikes. My friend that lives in Amsterdam. He's like, yeah, there's a lot of bikes. I'm like, oh, yeah, okay. There's a lot of bike. People always exaggerate things. No, he was not exaggerating.
00:05:27.676 - 00:05:52.596, Speaker A: There were a lot of bikes. Like, no matter which kind of, like, street you went to, no matter what corner you turned, there were bikes absolutely everywhere. And I learned that there's more bikes than people in. In the city in terms of population, not in terms of, like, tourists, because I think more tourists pass through the city by, like, many orders of magnitude. Then. Then residents live in the city each year. And that kind of, like, I guess, makes sense because Amsterdam is such a tourist kind of like central city.
00:05:52.596 - 00:06:13.314, Speaker A: I mean, I stayed. My hotel was basically the heart of the city. There was kind of, like. I mean, some of it was kind of crappy because there was a lot of, like, just tourist trap shops, which I guess you find everywhere, but, like, just on certain kind of, like, strips. It was just all tourist traps. And it was pretty funny how, like, different, I guess, like, the heart of the city was to kind of, like the outer city. I ended up visiting Vondal Park, I think it was.
00:06:13.314 - 00:06:37.498, Speaker A: And the surrounding areas, there were much more, I guess, like, non touristy. And I immediately noticed that not just because there weren't many tourist trusts, but because there wasn't many, I guess, like, english menus on kind of, like, restaurants and things like that. Whereas in the heart of the city, it was, like, English everywhere. And dutch people speak English generally, but I guess, like, the city's more catered towards the tourists these days. And it was just amazing. I mean, the canals are amazing. Just watching how the city operates.
00:06:37.498 - 00:06:52.858, Speaker A: Driving is a hindrance there. Like, you don't really want to drive because it's just so hard to get around compared to a bike. That's why bikes are so popular, because bikes are basically a first class citizen. They're actually above pedestrians. And which was weird for me, because in. In Melbourne, it's pedestrians. Like, pedestrians are the rulers.
00:06:52.858 - 00:07:09.786, Speaker A: Like cars, bikes all have to stop for it. But the bikes in Amsterdam didn't stop for pedestrian crossings, which was kind of, like, a bit weird to get used to, because usually at a pedestrian crossing, I just waiting for them to stop, and I'll just go. Like, I'll start going. But no, the bikes do not stop, guys. It was. It was pretty crazy. If you haven't been there before, take it from me.
00:07:09.786 - 00:07:23.930, Speaker A: Bikes are everywhere. That's not an over exaggeration. I think the canals were pretty awesome as well. Like, I love just seeing all the boats on there. I mean, I went on one just on a kind of like a private tour for a couple of hours, and my host was great. Knew a lot about the city. There's a lot of history and just.
00:07:23.930 - 00:07:44.826, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's a european city, right, guys? Like, there's a lot of history there in general. And I think Amsterdam is obviously a tourist hotspot because of that and because of, like, the canals and things like that and all the culture there. So that was really awesome. The venue, I guess, like, the. The. The area that they did kept defconnecting was awesome. And I also spent a few days in Paris after that as well, with my.
00:07:44.826 - 00:08:00.418, Speaker A: Just with my fiance. Paris. I guess I didn't know what I was expecting, but it was, like, a much bigger city than I thought it was. People always say Australia is really big. And I'm like, yes, okay. Australia on a pure land mass is really big, but, like, most of it is uninhabited because it's not habitable. It's just desert.
00:08:00.418 - 00:08:26.866, Speaker A: And the cities, they're much more spread out than kind of like, these. These european cities are, like Melbourne, for example. I mean, from the heart of the city to get to, I guess, what could be considered, like, the outback now, you'd have to drive, like, two plus hours in either direct, you know, in every direction except south, obviously, because that's the water. But, like, you know, north kind of like east, west. Um, you know, you have to drive a bit to consider. To be going into. Consider what's what's called the outback, because the city's just built out so much.
00:08:26.866 - 00:08:43.282, Speaker A: Like, we have a lot of suburban kind of, like, centers and things like that, rather than everything being packed into a tiny, like, tiny space. And that's exactly what european cities are like, right. Especially something like Amsterdam. But. But Paris just really, really busy everywhere. It was just absolutely crazy. Especially around kind of, like, I guess, the.
00:08:43.282 - 00:08:58.634, Speaker A: The popular spots and stuff like that. Obviously, I went to the Eiffel Tower and things, but. But, yeah, I mean, I think there were less tourists in Paris. There were. There were definitely a lot of just kind of, like, residents and natives. Just kind of like, obviously, France's population is like, 70 million or something like that. So, so that that makes sense, too.
00:08:58.634 - 00:09:12.780, Speaker A: But. But, yeah, I didn't know what I was expecting from Paris. And obviously, a lot of culture and history there, too. A lot of older buildings and things like that. It's always funny going from Australia to. To kind of like the european cities because I mean, Australia is a very young country on. The cities are very young as well.
00:09:12.780 - 00:09:29.988, Speaker A: We have. We don't have that culture and history that european cities do that is very much centered around world War one and two. Especially. Especially two. Australia has never, from what I understand, being in direct conflict with anyone. We've just joined other people's wars. I think the only war that I know of that we had was the Emu war, and we lost that.
00:09:29.988 - 00:09:47.326, Speaker A: So if you want to kind of look that up, it's on Wikipedia. Yeah, we lost that war. And other than that, we haven't really been it. So there's no kind of, like, history or culture around that. We have some landmarks here and there to represent kind of like the soldiers that fought in other people's wars or other countries wars. But, yeah, that's always kind of like a culture shock for me. And especially the.
00:09:47.326 - 00:10:19.774, Speaker A: I guess, like, how. How densely packed a lot of the cities are compared to something like Melbourne or Sydney, which are definitely not, you know, the Melbourne CBD is literally a business district. There's not really that many apartments there where people live compared to, I guess, the european cities. It's mostly just kind of, like suburban and, like, out of outer, you know, the outer ring of the city and stuff like that. But, yeah, that was my, I guess, like, journey of the last two weeks. As I said, very, very awesome to meet a lot of people, especially people that watch and listen to me ramble on every day on. On the refuel and things like that.
00:10:19.774 - 00:10:42.170, Speaker A: And at the. I should mention at the event as well, I judged the hackathon, which was absolutely awesome. Like the ETH Amsterdam hackathon. So, as Linda kind of, like, points out here, there were 700 hackers from 56 countries, and 31% of these people were new to web3, which is absolutely awesome. And the projects that I got to judge were pretty. Pretty cool as well. Here are kind of, like, the finalists.
00:10:42.170 - 00:10:51.314, Speaker A: So these are the 13. Kind of, like finance I judged Nimi F. And there was. I think there was one more in here. And I think. I think. No, not collective action.
00:10:51.314 - 00:11:00.850, Speaker A: I think there was one more in here. I can't remember now. Jet lags. Kind of like, playing up on me. I think it was. I think it was flown. So those are the two that I judged there, which were really cool, but you should definitely check out all of them.
00:11:00.850 - 00:11:25.506, Speaker A: I don't know if I had, like, a favorite out of all of them. I think they were all really, really cool. There was a lot less defi representation than usual. There's a lot of NFT web3 social stuff, which is cool to see. Like obviously you don't want to just see one category represented. A lot of cool stuff here, especially stuff building or kind of like L2s and, and things like that. But yeah, this was, I guess this is a picture of the co working space, but this was kind of like when it was trend for transformed for the hackathon.
00:11:25.506 - 00:11:53.320, Speaker A: So this was kind of like the area and on that stage there, that's where we kind of like had a live viewing of, of that, of the kind of like finalists and everything like that. But yeah, that's what, that's the kind of like old Amsterdam stock exchange building there. So yeah, check out this thread. I'll link it in the YouTube description for the finalists, but I think that was it for my last two weeks. Now I'm going to move on to the plethora of updates that came out. Just the crazy amount like that that I have to get through for today. But I'm very excited to do that.
00:11:53.320 - 00:12:42.680, Speaker A: So let's start with this update from AR, from the Ethereum foundation, which is, as far as I know, the first ever Ethereum foundation transparency report, which for those of you who don't know, the Ethereum community has been asking for this for a very, very long time, like for as long as I've been in Ethereum. And they've been asking for it because the EF does a lot of work within Ethereum, but there's not that much transparency into their work. They do post updates from time to time about the teams that they support and things like that, but generally they will not give transparency into things like finances or their finances, which is something that this report actually focused on. So there, there's 28 slides, 28 pages here. I'm going to let you check this out for yourself. But what I wanted to focus on was the, the financial kind of like side of things. And I'm just going to scroll to that one now because there is a slide on that.
00:12:42.680 - 00:13:05.516, Speaker A: Where is it? I think it is EF treasury. So this is the first time they've done an actual treasury report. And I'll just read out the meaty bits here. So as of March 31, 2022, the EF's treasury was approximately $1.6 billion, split between $1.3 billion in crypto, which we can all see on Etherscan. You know, the ETH Dev address holds all the ETH.
00:13:05.516 - 00:13:40.224, Speaker A: And then they said $300 million in non crypto investments and assets. This is the part that we didn't have any insight into. So this is pretty cool that they've got like $300 million outside of crypto altogether. This is a really cool kind of like defensive strategy here. And they go on to say that they follow a conservative treasury management pop policy that ensures they have sufficient resources to fulfill the EF's core objectives, and they increase their non crypto savings in response to rising ETH prices. As we've seen, you know, this is meme that EF sells the top. They don't really sell the top, they just sell into strength, which is actually like, not a bad strategy.
00:13:40.224 - 00:14:11.482, Speaker A: I mean, not investment advice, but I think some of the best investors I know in this space are typically the ones who sell into strength. Even if the price doubles from where they've sold. They're just taking profits that kind of like suit their own needs there. And that's exactly what the Ethereum foundation seems to do as well. And there's a couple more slides about this. Here's, here is it represented as kind of like a pie chart, what they spent the money on in 2021? So they actually ended up spending a lot of money in 2021 here. They spent $48 million, and I think, and $20 million of that was external spending.
00:14:11.482 - 00:14:36.494, Speaker A: I think they're on track to spend more than that for 2022 as well. And here's a breakdown of where that money went. It went to l one, R and D is over $20 million spent on that. And then a bunch of other categories here, which I'll let you guys check out. Yeah, I highly recommend reading this whole report. As I said, it's the first time the Ethereum foundation has kind of like put out this report, which is super exciting for me to see. I've been asking for this report as well for a long time, especially around the funding, which was great to see there.
00:14:36.494 - 00:14:49.834, Speaker A: So definitely recommend checking out this report. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but I think there is a take here from. Sorry, no take there from. From Trent. That's about something else. So yeah, definitely go check out the report. It'll be linked in the YouTube description.
00:14:49.834 - 00:15:31.066, Speaker A: So Trent put out here a kind of like a few pictures around the Ethereum protocol R and D Amsterdam event. Now, this event happened on the Monday and Tuesday of, not last week, the week before, where the protocol teams got together and did a bunch of workshops around things, mostly non merge related as well. So this was day two, which was working on EIP quadruple for the portal network status Ethereum and proposal a proposal builder separation, which, which are some of the major upgrades coming to Ethereum, I guess, like over, I guess after the merge. And you see here a bunch of just pictures of these workshops happening. A lot of the core devs were at without this event. I got to meet a lot of them, which was very, very cool. But yeah, they were working on just like non merge related stuff.
00:15:31.066 - 00:15:49.124, Speaker A: And obviously the merge was being talked about and some of the merge stuff happened here, which I'm going to touch on later. But this was very, very cool to say. So cool bunch of screenshots from Trent here. And then we have. Sorry, I have to keep refreshing the pages here, guys. I think I crashed my chrome before by opening too many Twitter pages. But, but yeah, next we have the quandary of Kondru.
00:15:49.124 - 00:16:10.356, Speaker A: I think it's how you say it, Kondra. I don't know how to say this. Vertical test now is now open to the public at this link here, which you can check out. Vocal trees are another kind of like upgrade coming to Ethereum after the merge. I've talked about these before, so if you want to get involved in the public testnet, you can by heading to this link. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do that. All right, next up we have.
00:16:10.356 - 00:16:31.036, Speaker A: This is going to work. Yep. The next up we have an update on the security teams funding from the Ethereum foundation here. So these are all the teams kind of like working on security, especially on the clients. This is obviously the stuff that we need to get done. Your testnets, things like that around the merge and other kind of like protocol upgrades. So this is just a kind of like recap on that.
00:16:31.036 - 00:16:54.974, Speaker A: So if you're interested in that, you can check out this link. It'll be in the YouTube description below. I think I'm going to have to keep refreshing all these links. Okay, now we're on to some non layer one related news. A new, not new. You guys will know about this scaling project. I've talked about them before, but scroll ZK, working on ZK roll up stuff, announced that they have raised $30 million from Bain Capital and a bunch of other investors here.
00:16:54.974 - 00:17:42.507, Speaker A: So you can kind of like see who the investors are. I mean, I participated in this round as an angel, just the disclosure there. But this polychain capital led the, led the funding with Bain robot Ventures and geometry Dow with others participating such, you know, a bunch of angels here such as myself, Ryan, Sean Adams, Santiago Santos, formerly of Parafi Capital there. And then they've got plans for a testnet that they announced as well that basically going live sue that soon they're trying to build a ZK evM. So this is, I guess, one of the, I guess, main l two teams now. I would say they've been building in stealth for a little while, but, yeah, I mean, I, I think that they're kind of like up there in terms of like their technical prowess and what they're building with some of the, the other greats like Starkware and matter labs and Polygon. And I think that there's a KVM is going to blow people away.
00:17:42.507 - 00:18:15.688, Speaker A: I do believe that. And I think that we have like four or five teams working on ZKVM right now, which is pretty crazy when you think about it, right, that we've gone from like zero to like four or five in such a short period of time. But yeah, this is just another kind of like another, another race for the long kind of like list of raises that have happened for L2 teams. I think that this just continues that trend and I think this isn't going to be the end of it. I think we're going to keep seeing more and more of these raises. Obviously, optimism announced their token, which I'm actually going to talk about later. I'm going through these updates as they kind of like, happened from, you know, when I stopped doing episodes to today.
00:18:15.688 - 00:18:29.520, Speaker A: So they're, they're all going to be kind of like in order. But, you know, a lot of these news will be old to you guys at this point in time. But I felt like it was. I needed to cover it. But, yeah, congrats to scroll on this raise. Obviously, I'm proud to be an angel in, in their kind of like race. Yeah, but this isn't about me.
00:18:29.520 - 00:18:57.248, Speaker A: This is about scroll and everything they're doing to kind of like scale Ethereum. All right, so a refill wouldn't be complete without a poly. Now tweet. I didn't mean for that to rhyme, but it rhymes. So Polly now tweeted out about a new project called Data Layout, which is a data availability layer based on dank sharding that attempts to leverage the security of ETH instead of a new token and is live on internal testnet. So this is just another data availability layer. But I think I shouldn't say just another.
00:18:57.248 - 00:19:52.432, Speaker A: I think they're, they're interesting because of the fact that they're using Ethan, not issuing their kind of like own token and they're kind of like implementing dank sharding already. So this is kind of like you could use this data availability network instead of ethereum to get kind of like cheaper I guess, fees and things like that. But I think that, you know, you can read Polynya's thread here for more information here. But my kind of like opinion on these purely data availability layers is that short to medium term, I think they're gonna, they're gonna fit like a purpose, but long term with like dank sharding and ERP 4488 on, on kind of like on Mainnet, I don't know if they're gonna serve a purpose because Mainnet, you know, posting data to Mainnet is just gonna get so cheap. As I've discussed before, it's going to be kind of like pennies on the dollar. And I think when you get to that, it doesn't really make much sense for other data availability networks to exist. Maybe it makes sense for kind of like these things that want to put absolutely everything on chain like games and stuff like that.
00:19:52.432 - 00:20:12.390, Speaker A: But for most use cases it's, it's sacrificing security for, for little benefits, I think. So we're going to have to see how that plays out. But cool to see more data availability solutions. I can think this design space is large. I don't think that we should just be relying on Ethereum and it's kind of like dank sharding approach. I think we should have kind of like multiple approaches here and there. But, but yeah, cool to see this.
00:20:12.390 - 00:20:43.662, Speaker A: Definitely give this thread from Polynya a read. I think it's very, very interesting and I think that more competition is good in this space. All right, so Connext Network have announced their token. So it's called next, which I guess is a very aptly named Token here. They've detailed the token. It's not out yet, but they've detailed kind of like the token here, how it all works, distribution, stuff like that. Um, you know, snapshots for the distribution of next, the next airdrop has already been taken, so there's no way, I guess, uh, to farm it.
00:20:43.662 - 00:21:03.576, Speaker A: At this point. The only way to potentially earn more tokens is through their contributor program. Um, but yeah, I'll let you guys read the blog post for more on kind of like how the, you know, token is going to be used. Everything about it. I don't actually think that they've detailed the distribution yet, sorry. Um, I think that that might be coming later, but this was just basically the announcement that there will be a token. As I said to you guys, like everything's going to have a token.
00:21:03.576 - 00:21:32.510, Speaker A: They shouldn't be a surprise to any of you. Everything except the daily way. Um, but yeah, this shouldn't be a surprise to you at all. Um, and I think that they've said that the token will go live roughly a month from the date that they published this, which was April 20. So I guess we should expect around May 20 for the token to go live for more details to be announced on distribution and things like that. Uh, and you can kind of like see the token address is already live on, on ether scan here. The total supply will be a billion tokens and all that good stuff there.
00:21:32.510 - 00:21:56.454, Speaker A: So if you want the details of some of the details, I guess, of the next token, definitely go check out this, this blog post and get involved yourself as well at contribute dot connects.net work in order to earn more tokens. If that's something that you want to do. And I should disclose here, I'm an investor and angel investing connects as well. So just want to kind of like put that disclosure out there for you guys. Not trying to pump my bags or anything like that. But yeah, they have a token.
00:21:56.454 - 00:22:25.122, Speaker A: There we go. All right, on to the next thing here. Just a quick shout out to CLF. ClR fund, which announced that they have, with the support of the film foundation, teamed up with east the East staker to run a 350,000 die quadratic funding round on arbitram for public goods. So you can go here and kind of like check out the details on this. But the TLDR is that they've teamed up to offer this matching pool dedicated to open source public goods for the Ethereum staking ecosystem. So this is very cool.
00:22:25.122 - 00:22:58.258, Speaker A: I like this. I like that there's more kind of like, I guess, money going into the Ethereum staking ecosystem. I'm going to talk about that a bit later around kind of like what the staking ecosystem looks like today because I know that Lido was a big topic of discussion while I was away for the last two weeks, and I want to kind of like hit on that. But this is just kind of like trying to, I guess, fund the open source development of kind of like more Ethereum staking related things. Because I mean, there's been a lot of hunger to stake recently, but people have kind of like brought up that most of it's gone into Lido. And I think that's because Lido is kind of like the path of least resistance. And as I said, I'm going to talk more about that.
00:22:58.258 - 00:23:33.794, Speaker A: But, but kind of like what CLR finally is doing here is trying to kind of like improve that, trying to get money into the hands of people that are kind of like developing solutions other than, than lighter, other than solutions that make it easier for people to stake because we just need more pods, which is what I'm going to talk about later. But anyway, I'm going to leave it at that. You can check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description. All right, so we have Spruce ID here who has announced a $34 million series, a lounge around led by a 16 Z. Now, I've talked about Spruce Bunch before. They're working on a bunch of different kind of like, identity related solutions for crypto and web3.
00:23:33.794 - 00:24:01.046, Speaker A: They're particularly working on sign in with Ethereum. That's kind of like their flagship project right now. And this funding will allow them to keep doing that, which is very, very cool to see. Now, again, disclosure, I participated in this round, but yeah, they had a bunch of investors participate in this round. You can see here, you know, as I said, a 16 Z kind of like led the round. And that participation from a bunch of other investors here, as well as a bunch of other angels that you can see listed here as well. So I guess, like congrats to them on this.
00:24:01.046 - 00:24:29.234, Speaker A: This is just like kind of like a raise announcement. Great to see more, I guess, like web3 stuff, getting funding. You know, obviously we've seen a lot of big raises around L2s, nfts and even defi, but this is kind of like web3. This is kind of like core infrastructure for web3. Unbundling the login kind of like process, the identity process, kind of like the profile and all that sort of stuff is really, really important. I think it's very, very cool. I think that web3 kind of centralized social media, all that sort of stuff, just going to get more important.
00:24:29.234 - 00:25:16.690, Speaker A: That's actually one thing I forgot to mention about my time in Amsterdam. Actually, there's not that many details about it. That's why I didn't mention it. But I think I should mention anyway, on the first day, on the Monday, I actually spent the whole day recording for a documentary that is going to be kind of like a docu series on how ethereum, how crypto is going to enable kind of like web3 and decentralized social media and how, you know, decentralization is going to help kind of like heal the world and heal us from all the perils of centralization that we seem to be suffering from. And I think it's going to be really cool because it doesn't really focus on what ethereum is today. It's going to focus on what a theorem can do in, you know, five to ten years from now and how it can change the world, not just on the monetary front, but on the kind of like social front and re architect our centralized institutions in a decentralized way. So I recorded, you know, it's a professionally shot thing.
00:25:16.690 - 00:25:48.880, Speaker A: It wasn't just kind of like some backyard thing, professional setup, professional cameras. It came out really well. Maybe I'll share some tease images with you guys in the discord or maybe on Twitter when I get around to it there. But that's something I should mention as well as it's related to what Spruce is doing around decentralized identity login, all that sort of stuff there. So again, congrats to spruce on the raise there. All right, we have another raise here from Oasis. They have raised $6 million in a series a led by Libertus, with participation from another, a bunch of different kind of, I guess, like angels and funds here.
00:25:48.880 - 00:26:26.592, Speaker A: Now, I didn't participate in this raise, but I have used Oasis many, many times before. For anyone who hasn't used Oasis before, they're basically building tools around kind of like, you know, using different Defi tools. They've been focusing on Maker. I've, I've used Oasis almost exclusively to manage my maker positions, and it's a really, really cool service there at Oasis app if you want to use them there. But essentially, they've kind of, like, raised this money, obviously, to keep developing this kind of, like, front end out for, I guess, like not just makeup, but other defi kind of like tools out there. And I think that we need more of this. We need more of these front ends that do, you know, do it all for Defi, make it just really easy people to get involved with Defi to manage your positions.
00:26:26.592 - 00:26:56.224, Speaker A: Obviously, there's a bunch of other solutions out there, like Instadapp and Defy saver and stuff like that, but the more the merrier. I say, like, I don't think we should just have one. I think we should have, like, thousands eventually right there. I've said before, there's going to be a bunch of kind of, like, decentralized and centralized front ends that hook into the Defi infrastructure that allow people to do all these sorts of things and allow people to kind of, like, choose their own adventure, which I think is really, really cool. I think is really, really important. So very, very cool to see this from Oasis. That they've raised $6 million in series A round.
00:26:56.224 - 00:27:25.450, Speaker A: All right, we have EPNS project, which has raised a series A round as well. They've raised $10.1 million at a valuation of $131 million. Now, you guys will know about EPNS, as I have participated as a seed investor in them quite a while ago, and I've been talking about them for a while now. But basically, EPNS stands for a theorem push notification service. They want to do decentralized push notifications for the entire, I guess, like, crypto web3 ecosystem, which is something that we need, obviously. I think it's something really, really cool.
00:27:25.450 - 00:27:58.894, Speaker A: That's why I back them. I still support them. I'm very, very happy to keep to supporting them here, and I'm happy that they were able to raise a series a round to keep building out their vision of apns here. So if you haven't checked out epns yet, be sure to do so. And you can check out their full funding announcement in this, in this kind of, like, article, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. All right, we have a kind of, like, news from this Ronin hack that happened. Now, you guys remember that the Ronin hack was, to the tune of hundreds of million dollars worth of ETH, one of the biggest hacks to happen in crypto.
00:27:58.894 - 00:28:51.818, Speaker A: And it was on the kind of like, bridge here. But essentially the FBI has attributed the North Korea as the hacker. So the Lazarus group, which you may have heard of before, to hacking the, the Ronin bridge here, which is crazy because the Lazarus group is what's known as an apt or an advanced persistent threat in the cybersecurity world. And these, the apt is basically a threat so big it doesn't have to be a nation state, but it's usually tied to a nation state where they can basically get away with anything because of the fact that they have nation state protection. Now, what better thing for apts to target than crypto? I guess, like contracts or crypto bridges or anything to do with crypto, because once they steal the funds, there's no, I guess, kind of way back for people. Like, unless there's kind of like a centralized key that can reverse the transaction or anything like that. If they're able to steal the funds and kind of, like, settle it on Ethereum a lot of the time, there's just kind of, like no way back there.
00:28:51.818 - 00:29:22.222, Speaker A: So the chances of getting these funds back now is basically 0%. Like, there's zero chance, I think. What's the company behind the sky, Mavis? Behind Ronin and Axie and all that have already announced that they're going to be, like, backstopping it. You know, raised funds by selling, I guess, like, tokens out of their treasury in order to backstop it. But, yeah, there's no way these funds are ever getting recovered. Like, North Korea is not just gonna be, oh, hey, guys, we'll take a 10% bounty and you guys can have all the funds back. No, and they're not really worried about how to get those funds out.
00:29:22.222 - 00:29:38.734, Speaker A: They just. They'll find their own way to get them out. Like, it's the, it's the North Korea. North korean government here. Doesn't matter. I mean, they've been finding ways around things like sanctions for ages, so for them, they don't really care. So that was quite interesting to see that, that the FBI attributed North Korea, the Lazarus group, to this so quickly as well.
00:29:38.734 - 00:30:12.158, Speaker A: So now we know who was behind the attack, and I think we're just going to keep seeing more and more of this as time goes on. Doesn't really matter that they've kind of, like, known that this is the group. At the end of the day, these actors don't care because they're nation state backed. They're protected. They basically have immunity from everything. Like, if they. If they're based in North Korea, then how is the FBI or how is anyone going to prosecute them? They're not, because there's no way North Korea would ever extradite their own citizens, let alone the citizens that they're funding to do these, these attacks to the US to prosecute them or to any other jurisdiction.
00:30:12.158 - 00:30:29.206, Speaker A: So that's why these apts are so, I guess, like, so scary and so kind of, like, such a big deal is because of the fact they can keep doing this, keep getting away with it. They're state sponsored actors, so there's not really any recourse that anyone can have here. But still. Cool to know. Cool. No. Interesting to know that they all behind this attack.
00:30:29.206 - 00:30:57.390, Speaker A: And I guess, like, Sky Mavis is just gonna plug the attack instead of getting the 8th back from. From Lazarus group here. All right, so the block shared a article saying that Coinbase is NFT marketplace actually went live in beta on April 20. Yeah, so it's been a week and a half. It's invite only at this stage, but from all that I've seen, it seems to have kind of, like, gone off to a slow start. There doesn't seem to be that many people who are using it right now. Yes, it's still closed off.
00:30:57.390 - 00:31:14.214, Speaker A: Yes, it's still kind of like in a whitelist only mode, but. But I don't know, I feel like they waited too long to launch this. I mean, we already have Opensea. We have looks, you know, the looks rare marketplace. We have a bunch of others popping up. We have Opensea acquiring others. Like Gem was a very popular marketplace that Opensea acquired.
00:31:14.214 - 00:31:34.672, Speaker A: We have Yuga Labs doing a bunch of crazy stuff with their kind of, with their kind of ecosystem, which I'm going to talk about a bit later. But, yeah, I mean, the NFT marketplace is live. I haven't used it yet myself. I actually got an invite code for the beta, but I was in Amsterdam and I didn't really have any way to, to kind of like set it up, and I wasn't really paying attention to it. So I haven't used it yet. I should use it. But let me know if you have used that.
00:31:34.672 - 00:32:05.526, Speaker A: If what your thoughts are, you can jump in the Discord channel and tell me there if you're like, obsessed with nfts, you guys know that nfts are kind of like a, not something I really pay attention to. Like, I only really cover the major announcements here, even though it's such a big ecosystem. It's actually crazy, like how big nfts are. But like, I just have so many other things I, that are more interesting and that I want to pay attention to that I'm just kind of like not paying attention to nfts at all. But I still kind of like, I guess from a high level paying attention to the major developments. And Coinbase's NFT marketplace is one of them. I wonder if it's going to get more usage once they open it up to everyone.
00:32:05.526 - 00:32:41.430, Speaker A: But from what I've seen, it's a nice interface, it works well ish, but yeah, limited number of users right now just because it's an invite only sort of beta right now. All right, I just wanted to highlight this Doona analytics dashboard from Hill Dobby here, who I met in, in Amsterdam. So that was great to meet him there. But basically this new dashboard will show you everything we got to do with ETH. Two staking deposits, such as the top deposited depositors, deposited amount, liquid staking, market share validators and more. So if you head to this dashboard here on Dune, you can kind of like, see all of this, all this data. So you can see here it's loading up.
00:32:41.430 - 00:33:09.350, Speaker A: So there's over 12 million ETH deposited right now. Over 379,000 validators, liquid staking market share is at 34%. This is what I was talking about with the lido stuff before. Lido has a 30% share of kind of like of the liquids staking market share right now. It's just crazy. I mean, and the validator coup has been kind of like nonstop full for the last, I guess, month or more, which is pretty crazy to see. I mean, what is that right now if I load up this website over here, it's at 14,400 still.
00:33:09.350 - 00:33:22.456, Speaker A: So it's. It's hung around 14,000 pending validators for a while now. And most of that has gone into to lido, which I don't know if. Am I going to talk about the next. No, I'm going to talk about that soon. But, but yeah, this is a really cool dashboard from Hill Dobby that I just wanted to highlight. You can go check that this out.
00:33:22.456 - 00:33:40.792, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. And lastly, you got to do with staking. I, I mean, loosely got to do with staking. I did a written interview with crypto staker.com that you can check out. I'll link it in the YouTube description, but it's basically a bunch of kind of like questions that I answered and, and kind of like. It was very interesting.
00:33:40.792 - 00:33:59.200, Speaker A: Um, so thank you to crypto staker, perhaps for. For letting me kind of like, uh, answer these questions here. You can check this out. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. Uh, now this is where I'm going to take my first kind of like break, but I'm going to be back with the rest of the other updates in the new kind of like tabs. So I'll see you guys in a sec. Alright.
00:33:59.200 - 00:34:26.804, Speaker A: And I'm back. So during the, I guess last two weeks, there was another main net shadow fork that happened on believe last Saturday. So not the one that just passed the one before that. This was successful. So you could see here Ben Edgington had a running thread on the main net shadow fork that was kind of like happening at kind of like the dev connect venues here. And we got to terminal total difficulty, which is obviously the threshold that needs to be met for the merge to happen. And we had a fork of mainnet running on proof of stake.
00:34:26.804 - 00:35:10.658, Speaker A: Now, I think everything went fine. There were no major issues. I think that there was kind of like maybe a couple of small issues that were ironed out. But yeah, it seems to have gone well, as Danny Ryan says here, which is very, very cool to see. So these main net shadow forks, for those of you who don't know are so important because it basically allows us to fork the network for the existing network and kind of like create this, this main net shadow fork, as we've kind of like called it, in order to test things like the merge using kind of like a real environment, using kind of like something that represents real live Ethereum, which is obviously very important for catching things like edge cases during the testing of the merge. So very, very cool to see this. Just one step further to the merge is actually more merge related info that I'm going to get to later.
00:35:10.658 - 00:36:00.880, Speaker A: But, but cool to see this and cool to see kind of like Ben's thread here documenting that there. So just wanted to kind of like mention that that happened on the April, April 23, the Saturday that I just mentioned there. All right, so a very interesting kind of like proposal or I guess like something out of the EU here where the EU officials have been talking about banning bitcoin. And by that they want to ban bitcoin by essentially kind of, I guess, like suppressing its price. I saw some comments about this because of the, the fact they understand that the higher the bitcoin, bitcoins price goes, the more kind of like miners come online, more hash power comes online, the more energy gets you used. And there was actually a comment here which I think I remember saying on a refuel and discord channel. But this comment, and as I quote says, if ethereum is able to shift to proof of stake, we could legitimately request the same from bitcoin.
00:36:00.880 - 00:36:48.512, Speaker A: Remember I said this to you guys? I don't know when I said it, it's been a while now where I basically said that the popular narrative is going to be, once ethereum transitions from proof of work to proof of stake, is like, why can't bitcoin do that? And, and, you know, the thing is like, why can't bitcoin do that? Right? Like, I'm not anti proof of work. I know why can't, why bitcoin can't do that? Like as someone in the ecosystem or I know why bitcoin won't because the ecosystem just does not want it. But a lot of people sitting on the outside are not going to have this kind of like, uh, this I guess, context. And they're going to be legitimately asking that question and that's going to lead to just more and more bad narratives for bitcoin, for proof of work. Uh, and bitcoin's going to be fighting that battle alone. And I think that I've seen the kind of like fud around the merge pick up lately where people are saying, you know, I think that ethereum should remain proof of work. I think that there's a few reasons for this.
00:36:48.512 - 00:37:30.018, Speaker A: One, people just kind of like chasing engagement farming, which a lot of people do. But I think the second reason, I think more, more of a legitimate reason is that having a theorem on side and as proof of work in the, in the upcoming fight against kind of like these nation states and their bad narratives around proof of work or just, you know, bad narratives in general would be much more beneficial than ethereum being proof of stake. Well, I mean, I'm sorry to break it to everyone, ethereum is going to be proof of stake very, very shortly and we will not have to fight this battle. And I'm so, so happy about this. I did not want to fight this kind of like ridiculous battle that's going to be ensuring. Doesn't matter who's right or wrong, the narrative around proof of work is going to get so much worse, guys. Like, it's, it's already bad, but it's going to get so much worse.
00:37:30.018 - 00:38:19.236, Speaker A: And once a theory moves to proof of stake, it's going to be even worse for bitcoin. Because as I said, and as the quote is kind of like, is laid out here, the narrative is going to be like, why can't bitcoin change through proof of stake? And honestly, I actually think bitcoin needs to change proof of stake anyway, just from a kind of like economical security point of view. You guys know, and I've discussed this before, about how bitcoin's block subsidy isn't going to be enough to, to maintain bitcoin's network security, and then they're going to rely on fees, which the fees aren't even close to enough. The fee revenue has been stagnant, if not decreasing for a while now because all the activities is basically moved to ethereum and other networks. So yeah, bitcoin is going to need a solution to that. And I think the solution to that is moving to proof of stake and adding a perpetual inflation. And this is why I think Ethereum has the best design for economic security, because layer one is going to be that settlement layer.
00:38:19.236 - 00:39:02.988, Speaker A: We're going to have perpetual issuance, but that issuance is going to be offset by a fee burn. And the fee burn works because Ethereum has real economic activity happening on it and growing. Right? And layer one, I know the fees are high, but there are plenty of people willing to pay those high fees, and there's plenty of things like L2 that are willing to pay those high fees as well. So when you take all that into account, Ethereum has such an amazing, I guess, like tailwind behind it moving to proof of stake, whereas bitcoin has this incredible headwind in proof of work. And I think this is going to be one of the major drivers of the flippening. I've always thought this. I think, you know, theory, moving to proof of stake, more and more ETH being locked up, being negative, issuance, deflationary, all the bad narratives going away for Ethereum around proof of work is just really going to lead to.
00:39:02.988 - 00:39:33.986, Speaker A: To that flipping. And I think that within a very short period of time, Ethereum will flip bitcoin after the merge. I think, you know, short period of time, I mean, depends how you define it. I think it could happen within a couple of years. I think that's a short period of time and considering kind of like the long arc of crypto, but I think that it can happen relatively quickly. I mean, I'm going to go on at my bullish rant at the end of, at the end of this episode about kind of like Ethan, what I expect ETH to do over the next couple of years, especially post merge. But yeah, I just wanted to kind of like highlight this and highlight just how bad these narratives are going to get for bitcoin.
00:39:33.986 - 00:39:52.480, Speaker A: Bitcoin, it's. It's going to be so bad, guys. Like, I don't think people are prepared for how bad it's going to get. I think bitcoin is. Should stop kind of like calling everything else a scam and call and, you know, focusing on Ethereum. I think they should look inward and focus on bitcoin because if they don't, it's getting flipped and then there's nothing to stop it from getting flipped again. Like, there's no guarantee it remains at number two after that.
00:39:52.480 - 00:40:15.702, Speaker A: Guys like Bitcoin's claim to fame really is being number one. Like that's it. Like if once it loses that spot, I am convinced that it's going to lose number two. Number three, I don't see how anything's going to keep it there. Like, the total addressable market for bitcoin is actually relatively small compared to everything else out there. And I know there's a lot of people who would argue against that, but I don't think that that's going to be the case. I believed in the flipping since pretty much I got into Ethereum.
00:40:15.702 - 00:40:51.830, Speaker A: I continue to believe in it. I believe in it, even when a theorem against bitcoin was kind of like, dumped really, really hard during 2018 and 2019. I'm not going to stop believing that because I believe Ethereum has the best design to accrue value to the asset and the best design for economic security, which is incredibly important on the longer time frame. But I'm going to go into that later in the episode there. But just wanted to highlight this here. All right, so I alluded to this topic before, but basically I put out a tweet on April 22 here where I said, Lido is not the enemy. The enemy is the fact that most people always take the path of least resist resistance, especially when money making opportunities are involved.
00:40:51.830 - 00:41:24.654, Speaker A: If we want to fight this, we need to create more paths, not demonize the creators of those paths. Now, this was a tweet I put out in reaction to the concern around Lido getting a large share of. Of the staking, kind of, I guess, of the staked ETH going into the beacon chain at this point. This is a few different reasons. I think the biggest reason is that they just make it so easy to do it. Like, once the ETH goes in, you get the steth token, and then you can exit your staked ETH position without having to wait for withdrawals if you want to, and if there's sufficient liquidity to do so. And, you know, as we know, most people are always going to take the path of least resistance.
00:41:24.654 - 00:41:53.150, Speaker A: And right now, lighter is that path. I think exchanges are probably centralized exchange. Staking is probably easier, but they don't give you this kind of like derivative token that you can use within defi that you can sell if you want to later on or anything like that. Right? They just let you stake with one click, and they actually take more of a fee, I believe. So Lido has become very, very dominant. We obviously have alternative staking service providers or pooled staking providers, like rocket pool swell. There's a few others out there, but slido is far and away the biggest.
00:41:53.150 - 00:42:28.234, Speaker A: I think they have a 90% market share at this point. And as we know, liquidity begets liquidity. So they've got like a very nice flywheel going for them right now. Now, the reason why, I mean, there's a few reasons why I said that they're not the enemy. The first one, as I outlined in the tweet, is that we shouldn't be demonizing them for creating a product that lots of people love to use. We should be making more parts, and we should be kind of like looking at the design of the beacon chain and being, okay, well, what can we change here? Maybe not so much at a protocol level, but as kind of like the app level to make sure that the stake is more distributed. Well, one of those ways is to build better pooled staking services and build more of them.
00:42:28.234 - 00:42:53.858, Speaker A: I think rocket pool is fine, but rocket pool is inherently limited by. By a few different mechanisms that kind of like, makes it tick and makes it work, whereas Lido is not limited by that. We also need to look at things like liquidity begetting liquidity. Lido is going to probably remain large for quite a while because of the fact that they have all the liquidity. And, you know, as I said, more liquidity begets more liquidity and so on. There's like a flywheel effect there. But I think that I have this kind of like, opinion that may be contrarian.
00:42:53.858 - 00:43:42.386, Speaker A: I actually flirted this opinion with a few people at DevConnect, and people didn't really agree with me on this because of that liquidity beginning liquidity phenomenon. But I don't think Lido is going to remain at 90% forever. I think the business opportunity for staking ETH is so, so big, especially pooled staking, that I think Lido share will actually come down in time as more services come online, and especially in kind of like a post withdrawal world, not post merger, post withdrawals, we're actually going to be see a big shuffling of staking. I believe we're going, because of the fact that withdrawals are now enabled. I think that people are going to kind of like shuffle around who they're staking their ETH with. They're going to withdraw and then re enter maybe via a different service, maybe not via lighter this time, or maybe not via a centralized exchange via a different service. And we're going to see a shuffling there, and it's going to take a while because of that validator queue for the shuffling to take place.
00:43:42.386 - 00:44:06.278, Speaker A: But there should be a name for this, maybe the great reshuffling of ETH stack. I think we're going to see these, definitely. I think a lot of people are going to enter an exit for various different reasons, and they're going to do so through different services. And I guess, like, onto my second point here, creating more paths. We also just need to make it really, really easy for people to stake on their own. Like, as Toby Kitty says here, you know, we need to incentivize solo staking, which I totally agree with, but it's one of the harder parts right now. Right.
00:44:06.278 - 00:44:30.826, Speaker A: Like, especially with the 32 ETH requirement. But even if we remove the 32 ETH requirement, staking on your own is not an easy endeavor. Like, I mean, I don't consider it, like, super hard to do. I think following the guides, you can actually get to a point where you do it or using things like dap node, but it's still not like, very, very easy, like a one click kind of thing. Right. So we need to make that a reality. But also, at the same time, you have, like, even if you have 32 ETH and maybe you, you know, you want.
00:44:30.826 - 00:44:46.082, Speaker A: You want a solo stake to support the network, but you also want to get a derivative token. You also want to get like a token that represents your staked ETH. Right now that can't be. Can't be done. Kind of like in protocol because of the fact that there's no withdrawals. So Lido is actually taking on a risk here by. By issuing this right now.
00:44:46.082 - 00:45:11.206, Speaker A: And if there was a bank running, this can be an imbalance in the liquidity pools. But, and, you know, same with kind of like rocket pool with reh and stuff like that. But I think, you know, post withdrawals, we're going to have more options here as well. So that, that's kind of like one thing there, but we need to kind of like, just create more pods. We need to create more pods in the. In the kind of, like, sense of making it easy to solo stake. Getting more staking service providers online, you know, better education as well, I think, is.
00:45:11.206 - 00:45:37.874, Speaker A: Is one thing. And just realizing that, as I said, people will always take the path of least resistance. And. And unfortunately, most people, you know, at least, I guess, from maybe from kind of like a first principles, so to speak, or like, from, you know, just getting into this ecosystem from a kind of like, just. Just first thing. I think that when you kind of look at all that and take all that into account, people will just not care about decentralization at the beginning. They only care about it when it matters.
00:45:37.874 - 00:46:09.320, Speaker A: So we might see kind of like a great slashing event at one point that gets people to care and stuff like that. But this is the state of it right now. As I mentioned before, by looking at Hill, Dobby's doing analytics dashboard, I think lido accounts for like 90% of the pooled staked ETH. They're 30% of the whole staked ETH, I think, right now, which is obviously not ideal, but we're gonna have to see how this plays out post withdrawals. I think pre withdrawals is kind of like very hard to tell, very hard to kind of like assign any kind of like weight to any of this sort of stuff. But yeah, I mean, lighter has just created such a good product that people love to use. We should not demonize them for that.
00:46:09.320 - 00:46:47.240, Speaker A: We should be encouraging people to create products, and I think they will because of the fact that the business opportunity is just so big and we're going to see more of that, I think, post withdrawals here. I just, speaking of staking superfizz Share that there is a new project called Project Sunshine, which is a new dashboard to monitor decentralization in Ethereum. It's very early and prs are welcome, but you can kind of like check this out here. So this is just another website to monitor, I guess, like the health of Ethereum's decentralization across more than just client diversity. So you can see here, client diversity is actually pretty amazing right now. You know, there's only kind of like 48% of the super majority, that being I think prism still. So that's come down a lot.
00:46:47.240 - 00:47:15.894, Speaker A: But you can see here, execution client diversity is nowhere good enough right now. It's only at 14 kind of like percent. So it's in the danger zone here. You can see and then you can see how many clients we have on the consensus and execution side. We have five each year, and then we have a non hosted validators and geolocation diversity, which is still kind of like a work in progress with a bunch of others, other metrics coming as well. So you can help them if you want by contributing on GitHub. It's all open source, so definitely go check this out and put in some pull requests there.
00:47:15.894 - 00:48:14.710, Speaker A: So Polygon had two massive announcements that kind of like came out of their event polygon ignite at Devconnect here. So the first one was a new, I guess like spoke in their Ethereum scaling suite called Polygon Supernets, which are an answer to, I guess like Avalanche's subnets, which as they describe them here, dedicated to scalable blockchains that aim to ignite mass adoption of polygon and web3. They've put $100 million behind this as part of a support fund. Now the reason why I say that there are the answer to avalanche subnets, which are really just side chains is because, I mean, they're called super nets, right? Like this is not, not an accident. Like the name is pretty much, pretty much kind of like a play on subnets here, but it's basically the same design where people can kind of like spin up their own blockchains with their own validator sets and basically kind of like create I guess like a more scalable but less secure system. So essentially what they can do is the same as what avalanche subnet can do. They can use the polygon PoS, change validators out of the box.
00:48:14.710 - 00:48:42.856, Speaker A: They're interconnected, can be managed, maintained by their Polygon certified partners and supports the edge architecture. So this is actually powered by polygon Edge, which is polygons, kind of like data availability, I'm sorry, not data availability network here. It's their, they're kind of like SDK. So it was known as Polygon SDK here. So this was a very, very cool, major announcement out of them. Cool to see this. I mean some people were critical of this being like, you know, why do we need this? Like this is just a copy of avalanche subnets, blah blah.
00:48:42.856 - 00:49:23.044, Speaker A: But really guys, like avalanche is just a copy of like aetherium. So I mean, I'm all for kind of like copying back and kind of like hitting them where it hurts and stuff like that. So I'm happy to see this at a polygon. But as I said before, I think stuff like this may be niche and I don't think it's going to be kind of like the long term sustainable scalable solution once we have kind of like that cheaper data on Ethereum and more mature roll ups. But I think it's needed for the, for the short to medium term and I think it's needed long term for niche use cases as well, like maybe even gaming and stuff like that. And the second major announcement out of polygon is that stripe has integrated with them to kind of like introduce crypto payments here. So this is being done by the polygon pos chain from what I understand.
00:49:23.044 - 00:49:55.102, Speaker A: So basically people using stripe can now be paid out via a crypto wallet in addition to bank accounts and debit cards that they've been able to get paid out to before. Now for those of you who don't know who stripe is, they're an absolutely massive payment processor. This isn't a small time kind of like thing. This is absolutely huge. And the fact that they've chosen polygon to do this is massive. I really like the chosen polygon and kind of like enabled this and enable this kind of like payout infrastructure using, using the polygon Pos chain. Now in the future I'm sure they're going to add more options here.
00:49:55.102 - 00:50:30.680, Speaker A: Hopefully we see some kind of like roll up options that'd be really cool to see. But I think starting with the polygon Pos chain makes a lot of sense since, I mean, stripe is centralized payments to begin with, so them using maybe a less secure solution with the polygon Pos chain than something like a roll up is totally fine. Like, I don't think that that's a big deal at all. I don't think you need ultra security for payouts from centralized solutions. And, you know, this is one of those kind of, like, solutions that I've discussed before that just doesn't need that ultra ultra security that Ethereum gives you with roll ups and stuff like that. So. And the polygon Pos chain has more kind of like a mature infrastructure at this point in time, has more integrations with.
00:50:30.680 - 00:51:12.834, Speaker A: With kind of, like crypto stuff. So, yeah, it makes sense for this to kind of, like, be playing out like this. So I guess congrats to polygonal landing, this absolutely massive partnership here with stripe. All right, so another raise announcement here, this one from liquify, that have raised $5 million to build the Carter for web3, from investors such as Dragonfly, Nascent, six man, six man ventures, and more. Disclosure, I participated in this round as an angel, of course, but I participated because I really get what liquify is trying to build here. They basically want to build a unified dashboard for companies, kind of like issuing tokens. So for those of you who've used Carter before, Carter has been used by crypto companies, but it's really only a platform for equity.
00:51:12.834 - 00:51:50.496, Speaker A: It's not a platform for tokens. And with liquify, what they want to do, and for those of you who kind of, like, have any kind of, like, tokens that are vesting out to you, they basically want to make this a dashboard where you can see things like, you know, you start date of your vesting, what the length is of the vesting, where tokens are kind of like, how much are being paid out, you know, where they're being paid out to, what the value is, all that sort of stuff. The way it currently exists is this fragmented mess. Like, I have a bunch of projects paying out, you know, vesting out to me right now that I invested in, and they all have their own dashboards, or maybe they're using Sableye and things like that. And Sableye doesn't really give you that much information anyway. I wasn't really built for this. So liquify is creating the kind of, like, all in one solution.
00:51:50.496 - 00:52:32.480, Speaker A: And the reason why I invested in it is because, like, as I said, I see the value immediately in it because I have so many companies that I've invested in and it's just like really annoying having to go through everything, having to record things in spreadsheets, having to go to different links just to kind of like manage all these positions. So if I had one unified dashboard for this sort of stuff, sort of like how I have Carter for equity, I'd be, you know, I'd be much happier about it. So, yeah, that's why I think liquify is really, really great. And I guess congrats to them on the race here. I'm, you know, I'm pretty happy to, to participate as an angel here, but definitely check them out if this applies to you. Obviously it's something that is more for people like the, I guess like investors and the angel investors and things like that. But the thing is, I think people can be vested out tokens from anywhere, not just from being an angel investor.
00:52:32.480 - 00:52:54.924, Speaker A: Like maybe you invested in kind of like a, an ICO. I guess we're not calling it icos these days, but like something that vests out could be applied to here as well. So anything got to do with vesting, anything paying out can use liquify. So yeah, very, very cool to see this and congrats to them on the raise. Alright, so Zappa's iOS mobile wallet app is now live. Well, it was live as of April 22. I'm just reporting on this later.
00:52:54.924 - 00:53:30.932, Speaker A: So you can download this in the App Store here if you've got an iOS device and you can kind of like import all your accounts and stuff here, which is also very, very cool. Now, as I've said to you guys before, I think I played around with this when it was in kind of like beta works very, very well. You got all the feature same features you have, I guess, on, on desktop, but I think with, with kind of like the mobile wallet app, they're actually going to take this, um, a bit further and kind of like turn it into an actual wallet instead of just the kind of like a dashboard you see here. I'm featured in the video here, like my profile, which is pretty cool. Uh, but yeah, this is, this is really cool. Uh, definitely check it out. If you haven't yet, you can download it.
00:53:30.932 - 00:54:05.592, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. I saw something I wanted to highlight here is just how powerful Uniswap's brand awareness is. The Uniswap protocol, after just three months of launching on the Polygon Pos chain, has 50% of the market share. That's crazy. Crazy considering that there are, there are kind of like amms that have been live on the polygon Pos chain, such as quick swap for a long time. These have been native amms that do not have the, you know, the market share that um, that polygon has here. And you can kind of like see what the market share looks like on this, this dune analytics dashboard here.
00:54:05.592 - 00:54:33.860, Speaker A: So essentially I think that this is the actual query that's running here. But I think that Uniswap, you know, counting 50% and then you've got a bunch of others like sushi swap, quick swap clip by Kyber and balancer making up the other 50%. So Uniswap, I think we're at this point we'll probably have over 50% because this is from April 21. It just speaks to just the brand awareness of Uniswap. Right? Like, like when I think of amms, I immediately think of Uniswap. I trust Uniswap. I want to use it if I'm liquidity, providing.
00:54:33.860 - 00:55:01.726, Speaker A: I definitely want to do it through Uniswap and stuff like that because I know their contracts are secure. I know that the, they're built with kind of like security in mind. I know that, you know, it's just a brand that I trust. I think a lot of people forget this is that everything is brand awareness, brand trust. It doesn't matter if it's decentralized or centralized, it's going to be the same thing. So I think that it's just really cool. This is just a really cool kind of like stat to highlight just how much trust people have in polygon and how big brand awareness is for, for Uniswap.
00:55:01.726 - 00:55:33.466, Speaker A: Sorry, I'm interested people having uniswap and how big the brand awareness is for Uniswap here. Alright, so this is an interesting tweet put out by way here, which shows the very clear divide between crypto Twitter and nft Twitter. Now you can see crypto Twitter is on the left in circled in red. NfT Twitter is on the right circled in purple. And then there's a subsection called the apes, which I guess are the people with the ape profile pictures circled in, I guess like a turquoise here. Now, I've mentioned this before and I've mentioned how big this divide is. And it really is just kind of like two different worlds here.
00:55:33.466 - 00:56:03.426, Speaker A: You have most people in crypto twitter and most people in nft twitter that have absolutely no interest in each other. There's no real overlap here. I mean, there are some people in the middle between the two, but most, for the most part, there's hardly any overlap between the two communities. And I see this easily, like on, whenever I'm on crypto Twitter, like, I see just the difference between it. And a lot of the people that are kind of like big on NFT Twitter have big accounts on there. They're not following, like me, there's not a lot of people that I know that are following them. I'm not following them.
00:56:03.426 - 00:56:41.690, Speaker A: There's just this huge divide. And I think it's typically because NFT people generally don't care about crypto, they don't care about Ethereum, they don't care about things like the merge L2 is whatever. All they care about is trading jpegs, at least most of them. There are some of them that care about the other stuff, but most of them just care about trading jpegs. And I think a lot of the complaints around gas fees come from this community because they don't understand how a theorem works, how ethereum is going to scale. They don't understand why the fees are high. And that was just really eye opening to me when I kind of like saw this image, when I kind of like, ran it through kind of like my head and things like that, and kind of like, seeing it just visualized was just, yeah, incredibly eye opening.
00:56:41.690 - 00:57:07.978, Speaker A: So I'm glad that wave put out this tweet. It kind of like validates my thesis that I already had around these communities being very separate. And I think this is going to continue to separate. I just, I genuinely don't think that most people that will ever come into NFTs will ever care about the underlying infrastructure. And I think this is going to be true for most use cases like Defi. I think a lot of it's just going to be used through kind of like front ends and centralized intermediaries. And most people aren't going to care about what's, what's kind of like powering it at all.
00:57:07.978 - 00:57:41.866, Speaker A: And crypto Twitter will just become like this niche community of just like a small, relatively small group of people that care about this sorts of stuff, and that's fine. Like, honestly, I mean, there's a, there's a small community of people who care about the protocols powering the Internet and pay attention to that sort of stuff. I'm not one of those people, but I use the Internet. We all use the Internet, right? There's a small group of people who care about all the infrastructure powering the Internet, but most of us, most people don't. And that's going to be the same for crypto. Like to be, to expect anything else is to be naive, I believe. And I think that there might be a bit more care just because of the people, people have holding the tokens of these different projects.
00:57:41.866 - 00:58:32.338, Speaker A: Like if you hold ETH, maybe you care slightly more about what's coming for aetherium in terms of upgrades because you might believe it's going to pump Ethan, things like that, obviously like the merge. But I think for the most part there's just going to be this divide that's going to keep growing between the different communities that use the kind of like platform and actually care about the underlying infrastructure here. So if you're listening to this on the podcast, definitely check out. I'll link this tweet and link this image in the YouTube description below. Look for Zero X wave in the YouTube description and you'll be able to see the image that I'm talking, talking about, about here. Alright, so last thing I wanted to kind of, I guess highlight here was my second video that I did with Altcoin daily, which was talking about L2s and how ethereum is scaling. For those of you who watch the refuel religiously, this would be nothing new to you, but I still think you should go check this out for just like, I think it's about 20 minutes, kind of like recap of kind of like l two s, how ethereum scaling the modular approach, all that good stuff there.
00:58:32.338 - 00:59:05.454, Speaker A: I'll link this in the YouTube description for you to check out if you would like. But that's the end of the second kind of like set of tabs I have here. Take another break. Be back in a sec with the last set of tabs, last set of kind of like things to talk about there. All right, we're back with what is probably the biggest news from the last two weeks, which was optimism, announcing something called the optimism collective, which includes their governance kind of system and of course the op token. Now we all know this has been a long time coming. They the first major l two to issue a token.
00:59:05.454 - 00:59:35.962, Speaker A: This is the token wars they've begun. Right? Like the L2 token wars. Now I want to focus on the non token things first with Opt, with what optimism announced, because I think it's really cool. So the optimism collective is basically there, I guess as I mentioned, like governance system, kind of like their way of doing things. They're kind of a culture that they're trying to kind of set here now there's all these kind of like details you can read in these blog posts. I'm sure you've already read it. There's no, there's no point me trying to tell you to read it like this is, I mean, one of the most popular kind of like events in crypto history.
00:59:35.962 - 00:59:58.898, Speaker A: I. Sorry, in ethereum's history here to happen. So I'm sure you guys have already done it, but they have a bunch of blog post, one introducing the collective, one outlining the vision. They've got like this tweet thread that kind of does a TLDR. Now what I really want to focus on is how the optimism collective is going to be governed. So it's actually going to be governed co equally by two houses that they're calling the citizens house and the token house. Now obviously the token house is pretty self explanatory.
00:59:58.898 - 01:00:20.930, Speaker A: It's going to have like token incentives in there. The, the token token is going to be managed here, the treasury is going to be managed here. Um, and it's all going to be run by the op token. And the citizens house will be doing things like retroactive public goods funding. And citizenship for this house is non transferable. So once you become a citizen of the citizens house, uh, you cannot transfer that citizenship to another Ethereum address. From my understanding.
01:00:20.930 - 01:00:57.360, Speaker A: Now I think your citizenship can be revoked. Um, I would assume that it would be Nick, be revoked by the citizens themselves. But this is really cool. This is starting to look more like the real world government governance systems that we already have, which I think actually work quite well for separation of power. So you have here, like the token holders are separated from the citizens who have maybe an NFT that kind of like represents their citizenship. And then I can imagine like a third prong coming and that being the judiciary, kind of like house, which is kind of like the courts, right? Like arbitration process, which, you know, could fit in here as well. So, so this is kind of like how they're, how they're going about here, which I thought was very, very interesting.
01:00:57.360 - 01:01:24.836, Speaker A: And the goal is to obviously drive sustainable growth of the optimism ecosystem. So they outlined here, the citizens house will govern public goods funding and then the token house will be powered obviously, by op. And it governs stuff like protocol upgrades, project incentives and more. And it also drives growth. Now of course there's an airdrop of the op token, but not just one airdrop. There are going to be multiple airdrops. So the first airdrop that they've done, you can check your eligibility at this link here app optimism IO governance.
01:01:24.836 - 01:01:49.934, Speaker A: They basically kind of did a bunch of kind of, like, different things. You had to meet a different kind of criteria. You had to meet not just on the optimism network, but in the ecosystem more generally, such as being like a multi sig signer or kind of donating on Gitcoin. And if you got six out of six, you got a massive token bonus on sassle ETH. I actually ended up getting six out of six, which was a complete surprise to me. I was like, holy crap. Like, that's.
01:01:49.934 - 01:02:10.622, Speaker A: That's a coincidence there. And that's the only address that I really got, like, any material op tokens on. But I think the maximum you got was something like 30,000 op tokens, which was crazy, because the. I think 25,000 of that was the bonus for hitting all six, which is, which is quite insane there. Now, the token is not live yet. It's going live, I think, in the next few months after this announcement. So I'm not sure when that'll be.
01:02:10.622 - 01:02:59.102, Speaker A: It could be anytime soon, you know, in May, June or July, I would assume so. It's going live quite soon there. But, yeah, there's only, there's not only one airdrop, there's going to be multiple airdrops. Now, what I really like about them teasing multiple airdrops is that they have, obviously, optimism has this thing called retroactive public goods funding, where they take all the revenues, all the profits from their sequencer that they have right now and donate it retroactively to public goods. Now, there's kind of like a flywheel here that develops where the demand for op block space goes up, public goods funding goes up, investments into more public goods goes up. And I put a tweet out here, I said, future op airdrops is the best Psyop, because what it does is it drives more activity on optimism. People who are trying to farm the airdrop, it generates more fear of a new for optimism from that, and then it donates that fear of a new to public goods.
01:02:59.102 - 01:03:29.070, Speaker A: It's turning degeneracy into regeneracy, as I've kind of like, be talking about a lot on the refuel over the last, last few months, just turning kind of like people into regents. And this does that because activity on optimism already went up, because people are like, oh, I better get on there, because there's going to be future airdrops, and that will naturally lead them to check out all the stuff that's happening on optimism and to lead them to actually using the network even more, which just generates more revenue and donates more to public goods. And that's just amazing. Flywheel. That's kind of like going on here. So I really, really liked that. They basically announced that there's going to be future airdrops.
01:03:29.070 - 01:04:25.506, Speaker A: And there's, as far as I know, the way the future airdrops will be kind of like constructed, will be based on, I think, the governance from both the token house and the citizens house coming to kind of consent us on how to do this and kind of like stuff like that as well. So you can read more about this. In all of these kind of, I guess, like blog posts that they've linked here, there's also kind of like an overview of the governance. There's also the eligibility criteria here of, for the op, the op token, also the allocation. So this is kind of like the pie chart of the kind of total thing here. So I think what most people are generally interested in is how much are investors in the core team getting? Well, investors in the core team are getting about 30, if I'm doing my math right, 35%, I think, is my math right there, or 36% of the total network, and the remainder is going to 20% to retroactive public goods funding, 25% to an ecosystem fund, which is split out on the right hand side that you can see there. And 19% is actually going to user airdrops.
01:04:25.506 - 01:04:55.308, Speaker A: 5% has been allocated to Airdrop one and 14% for future airdrops. I actually think this is one of the better token allocations out there. I think it's not too heavy on the investor and core contributor side. Remember, core contributors includes the whole team. I think optimism teams up to 40 people right now, and in the future, that's going to be even more. And then Sugar Zaddy's a call it here, which is investors is 17%. This is investors across the seed, I think pre seed seed Series A and Series B, which is coming in at 17%.
01:04:55.308 - 01:05:27.728, Speaker A: And then, as I said, like most of the, the allocation is going to the community because retroactive public goods funding is going to community projects. And anything that kind of like the Dow votes on ecosystem fund is going to similar things. There's going to be what I found interesting. There's going to be 5.4% of this ecosystem fund dedicated to a seed fund, which means that the optimism collector will be, don't will be fun investing in other projects and kind of like getting a share of that, that token into them as well. And then user airdrops, of course, that's going directly to you there, which I thought was very, very cool. Let me know what you think of this.
01:05:27.728 - 01:06:07.154, Speaker A: I think there was a bit of pushback on, kind of like this design and this token distribution. I know people were saying, oh, it's too much for investors and core contributors. And I kind of look at this, I'm like, like, guys, like, how much do you think that these people should get? Like, okay, investors is one thing, but core contributors? This is something that I wanted to kind of like talk about core contributors. I mean, these people have been working on scaling Ethereum, some of them, since like 2016, and they haven't really taken anything from it. I mean, they may have ETH bags that have gone up in value and all that sorts of stuff, but they haven't monetized optimism at all. They haven't generated any money for themselves. They've actually donated all the revenue that they've generated, which is millions of dollars, by the way, from their sequencer to public goods funding.
01:06:07.154 - 01:06:47.204, Speaker A: So I don't understand how people are being critical of core contributors taking 19% when, as I said, that is split amongst pretty much like the whole company, not just the founders, but like everyone in the company now. Obviously people's shares are different. I'm not sure exactly what the breakdown is there, but yeah, I don't know why people are kind of like harping on about that. And then investors, guys, like, until recently, no one wanted to fund this stuff. Like, the money was not raining down upon the L2 teams until recently, and, and optimism did their seed round really early on and then they did their series a round earlier on. Series B was very recently, but they seed round. I don't think there was much money going around for them back then when they wanted to.
01:06:47.204 - 01:07:11.028, Speaker A: To do this. Like, scaling Ethereum was not something that people really even cared about because gas prices were quite cheap still. And no one really kind of like, no one had the foresight. Most people didn't. I kind of like, I kind of knew that the gas prices were going to go up, but no, most people didn't have the foresight of this, so they weren't investing here. It's just recently over the last, I guess, year or so, that investments into L2s have exploded. But don't take that to kind of like mean that it's always been like that.
01:07:11.028 - 01:07:40.596, Speaker A: And generally when in the, in the kind of like seed stage, especially if you're finding it hard to raise money, you have to give up more of the company to do so. So I actually think 70% going to investors is not that big when you consider optimism's history. But I should disclose here that I'm a series B investor here, but that doesn't really have any bearing on my thoughts on this. I think this is just a great distribution, and doing airdrops, doing token distributions is really fucking hard. Like, it's not a solved problem. I don't think you can ever perfect it. You can only get as close to the perfection as possible.
01:07:40.596 - 01:08:12.172, Speaker A: We only do that through iterating, through an, through experimenting. Now, this isn't me saying to you guys that you should go buy op tokens or I think it's going to be a good investment. I possibly can't, I can't possibly say that because, I mean, I have a conflict of interest, of course, as being an investor. But I also don't know. At the end of the day, I have told you guys plenty of times before that a lot of these tokens, not, not, not necessarily like optimism or l two token, but just tokens in general. Like a lot of them have no reason to be worth anything. Like, I'm actually amazed that some of them even worth anything when you kind of like, look at how they accrue value.
01:08:12.172 - 01:08:48.070, Speaker A: So I'm not going to make any comments on the tokens value or anything like that, but I think the distribution is actually fine. Like, I actually think that, honestly, 20% to retroactive public goods funding is insane. This is going directly to public goods funding, guys. Like this is, this is coming directly, this is a fifth of the tokens going to this sort of stuff. So I don't know, I thought that was very, very cool. And I think that the way they're just structuring their entire governance process with um, the token house and the citizens house, and possibly kind of like the, the fugitive, the, the judiciary house later, I mean, I, that's just something that I've kind of like, come up with. But this, this is kind of like super cool.
01:08:48.070 - 01:09:20.484, Speaker A: I just love it. I think this is the one of the most ambitious and interesting governance kind of like designs that I've seen. And I can't wait to see this kind of like play out in the ecosystem. So that was the biggest news from the last two weeks. I think Trent van Epps, yeah. Had a great, kind of like, um, a take on this, where he said, you know, many cool tidbits around the optimism collective. He said that well, considered initial airdrop with more in the future, non transferable governance with balanced token governance, reaffirming public goods commitment and you can mint the post, the actual blog post on Mira, on l two, as an NFT, which is really, really cool.
01:09:20.484 - 01:10:07.632, Speaker A: So optimism really does seem to be setting the standard here around governance and around tokens and stuff like that. I really, I'm really curious to see what other l two s do now. Our arbitrary is already pretty much teasing their token because Stephen Goldfeder said on Twitter the other day, the appetizer comes before the main course, and I took that to reference, you know, optimism being the appetizer, arbitrary being the main course. We'll have to see, we'll have to see how that shakes out, how all the other l two shake out with their tokens governance processes. But optimism really has set the bar here and it's, it's a high bar to reach now, I think, but very cool to see. This will obviously keep you guys updated and everything happening within that ecosystem, if you haven't on board its optimism yet, I mean, now would be the time to do so. You could possibly get a airdrop in the future, but also you can just check out the awesome ecosystem they have on there that's been developing over the last, I guess, six months or so, especially.
01:10:07.632 - 01:10:43.708, Speaker A: So. Yeah, go check that out. All right, so I guess, Pauline, sorry, before I move on, Polly now had a take on optimism as well, where they said, it's interesting to see just how innovative roll up tokens can be unshackled from the challenging work of economic security, aka the consensus part of a blockchain. So challenging indeed, that only two protocols in this industry history has gotten remotely close to achieving it, and no one else is even attempting it. Those two protocols, bitcoin being bitcoin and ethereum. As I said to you guys before, it is so much better to just have an l two, not worry, have to worry about economic security, consensus, all that sorts of dirty stuff. That's just like really hard.
01:10:43.708 - 01:11:15.644, Speaker A: And we've seen the failures of this time and time again of these other chains. I mean, I was, um, I was in transit in Dubai yesterday and I saw that Solana went down again and I was like, what? Like, for the same reasons that we've been calling for, like, many months now, that their bots are just going to spam the network and keep, keep killing the network. And that's what keeps happening. It's just really freaking hard to do consensus at scale, guys. Like, it's really hard to keep it decentralized. It's really hard to kind of like a scale, a layer, one blockchain. And as I've said before, I don't think the monolithic approach is long term sustainable.
01:11:15.644 - 01:11:43.916, Speaker A: We're already seeing it break apart at the seams. The best approach is modular for so many different reasons. I am so bullish on the modular approach. I get more and more bullish on the modular approach as time goes on. I think optimism with their token setting a standard, setting a trend, and the next year or so we're going to see an explosion in these sorts of things happening. And I really do think if the market heats up again post merge, we're going to see just an absolute explosion in everything across this ecosystem. I'm so bullish, I'm going to save the rest of my bullish rant for the end of this video.
01:11:43.916 - 01:12:16.532, Speaker A: I've got a few things, few other things to get through before I do that. And oh yeah, there's also like a bad take here from Emmon Gant from avalanche, which I guess kind of was like expected, where he said, call debt. Every l two will eventually issue its own asinine token and try to cannibalize ETH, which is the dumbest take ever. And John here on Twitter said called it kind of like in a sarcastic tone. Every subnet will eventually issue its own asinine token and try to cannibalize avax. Except they won't pay a penny back to avalanche, unlike roll ups with with which pay will pay tons of fees back to ethereum. So this is true.
01:12:16.532 - 01:13:00.658, Speaker A: Subnets, if they issue their own token in Avalanche, will not pay back to avax holders or it will not benefit a vaccine holders because it's not paying back to the avalanche network itself, it's issuing its own token. But with l two tokens. Guys, as you guys know, l two s have to pay a theory. I'm in ETH for their security. So it doesn't matter if they issue their own tokens all white, they'll, they will always be posting their proofs and their data, at least roll ups will to layer one aetherium and always be paying in ETH for that, which obviously most of that gets burned and it flows back to ETH holders. And we have this just beautiful economic security, this beautiful system happening with this symbiotic relationship between l one ethereum and l two ethereum. Emin right here is actually spreading bullshit information.
01:13:00.658 - 01:13:32.088, Speaker A: And I'm pretty sure he's smart enough to know this. So at this point, he's just being willfully spreading this misinformation, which I consider to be one of the biggest sins in this industry as an educator, and I freaking hate it. Emin blocked me, so I can't even reply to his shitty takes anymore. But like, I, when I saw this, I was like, this is just getting me really angry because Emma knows better for one, two, which is completely false. Three, I can't reply to it to tell him it's completely false, but other people did, which is nice. And, you know, I just kind of like, look at this, and I'm like, they're scared. Like, anyone fighting roll ups at this point is just scared.
01:13:32.088 - 01:14:07.054, Speaker A: Especially if they're building monolithic chains like Solana, like avalanche, like some of the others out there, they're just scared. They're really, really scared of a theorem and its roll up since vision, because why wouldn't you be? It makes the most sense, right? It basically kills all these alternative l one platforms. It kills them dead guys. Once we have dank sharding in the new year in 2023, and roll ups basically sent on the dollar to deploy to, and they have a better developer experience and they have more users, they have a better network effect than any of these Alt L1 s. The older ones are going to fade into irrelevancy very, very quickly, I believe, and then we're just going to see an explosion in roll ups happening on a theorem. It's going to be magical. It's gonna be awesome.
01:14:07.054 - 01:14:37.462, Speaker A: I am super excited for it, as you can tell. And I just get more and more excited as time goes on about L2s, about roll ups and all the stuff that they can do, especially with their tokens. So I guess Emin co para, honestly, like, I'm gods gloves off at this point. Guys, like, I'm sick of playing nice with these people. They say good vibes only, you know, we're all in this together, and then they just shit on every single thing got to do with ethereum while forking etherium to power their own chain and make themselves billionaires. Gloves off. At this point, I'm going to be more ruthless because I don't give a shit if people call me an ETH maxi anymore.
01:14:37.462 - 01:15:00.134, Speaker A: I'm sick of it. Honestly, as an educator, I'm sick of it. And I'm just going to keep calling it out anyway, end rant for now. Moving on. So, okay, so there was a bit of details on the last core dev call, which you can kind of like, read a summary from, from Tim Bico here about the difficulty bomb. Now, the difficulty bomb was not pushed back on that core dev call, which. And then I tweeted out, which means the merge could likely happen in July or August.
01:15:00.134 - 01:15:25.984, Speaker A: Now I tweeted this out a bit prematurely, I think. I think went on to say, you know, keep in mind that the bomb could still be delayed at a later date if need be. As always, it's hard to give any concrete dates around ethereum upgrades, especially the merge. But I know we're very close now. You guys know that I've been saying that it could still happen in, in July and more likely August. I did say 0% chance in June and I mean, look at this point in time, it's just not happening in June, guys. Like, we haven't even done the public test net forks yet.
01:15:25.984 - 01:15:42.610, Speaker A: So. So July Queen toss, I think at this point still August, I think is pretty likely, to be honest. I mean, don't quote me on this, but I mean, the shadow folks are going, the main net shadow folks are going really well. People are feeling very confident in it. The core devs at this point are just like, let's just merge. Like we've done so much testing. Things are good.
01:15:42.610 - 01:16:18.348, Speaker A: We don't, we aren't finding major consensus bugs anymore or anything like that. Let's just get this thing done. Now. I think the next core dev call that's happening, not this Friday. I think the Friday after will probably determine if the, there will be a separate hard fork to push the difficulty bomb back or if the merge is going to go ahead and just remove the difficulty bomb altogether in something like July or August. Now if we wait till August to do this, I believe block times will be up to 20 seconds due to the difficulty bomb, which means that fees are going to go higher again. Now can the community deal with this for one to two weeks? I think so, but any longer than that is just going to be really, really bad.
01:16:18.348 - 01:16:46.302, Speaker A: I think at least in the short term. Honestly, I'm more of the, I'm more of the opinion that the community can deal with this for a little while, but at the same time, the block time is just going to get longer and longer and it does lead to some perverse effects here. So I think that if they don't delay the difficulty bomb on the next core dev call, it's most likely means that we're going to merge in pro late July, kind of like early August timeframe. But again, don't quote me on that. We have to wait for more information to come out. It's very hard to tell, but as I said, we're very, very close, guys. It's coming.
01:16:46.302 - 01:17:23.354, Speaker A: It's coming sooner than people think, obviously. Super exciting stuff around the merge here. All right, and as I said, you could read this thread from Tim Bico going over everything that was discussed on the latest core devs call. Alright, so ethereum.org has published their q two roadmap. So you can check this out now on GitHub. So the must dos on their roadmap is merge preparation, revamping wallet pages, redesign the learn page, consolidating Ethereum wikis, translating the f blog, an open design system, implementing the UI library typescript rollout, user insights, translation quality, sorry, translation quality and much more here.
01:17:23.354 - 01:17:35.938, Speaker A: So if you want to get involved and help with this, guys, you can. It's fully open source. You don't have to be working on the ethereum.org team directly. You can just go contribute as you see fit here. And there's a lot to do. So definitely if you're interested in contributing to ethereum.org,
01:17:35.938 - 01:18:04.846, Speaker A: go check this out, make some comments, you know, check out everything that needs to be done, make some pull requests, jump into the Discord channel and kind of like get talking to the people, right? Working on the site here. They're great people. Met a few of them at Devconnect. They work really hard on this sort of stuff to make sure that everyone is educated about Ethereum. So this was a really, really interesting tweet thread from Ms. Barney here. I hope I said your name right there, who basically said that there's often more to metrics than meets the eyes.
01:18:04.846 - 01:18:39.284, Speaker A: And the metric that they're talking about in this thread is fear of a new, specifically fear of a new on avalanche. So. So Avalanche is currently generating about $400 million in annualized transaction fees, up almost three times a year. To date, it's the third biggest blockchain by fees, behind Ethereum and BSC. So what's actually driving the volume here now, the TLDR is that what's driving the revenue is 50% is coming from a play to earn game called Crab, Crabada or something, some crab game. Right? Now this, like I've always said before, that as long as people are paying to use the network, it doesn't matter where the revenue comes from. It's all well and good.
01:18:39.284 - 01:19:30.748, Speaker A: It's all, you know, people are paying for it, it means they're driving out of it. But what becomes concerning, I think, for a blockchain is when so much of the fear when you is concentrated in one app or one particular kind of like contract or one set of contracts, in this case, there's this Crabada play to earn game, which I'm assuming is very similar to, you know, to other player to earn games that have Ponzi like mechanics to it. For 50% of the revenue to be coming from that one game is really bad because if that game just kind of like collapses and people lose interest in it, then 50% of the fear of a new for avalanche disappears. And to be honest, it could be even more than that because of the fact that this is just the game's main contract. The game could be utilizing other contracts on Avalanche, such as the AMM contracts that will be driving even more revenue there. It could be driving more revenue of token, kind of like transfers, of Avax kind of like transfers. And, you know, it could be even higher than this.
01:19:30.748 - 01:19:52.590, Speaker A: So whenever I see one app or one or two apps dominating the fear of a new, of something, I always get very bearish on it because that's not sustainable, honestly. Like, one app isn't going to sustain for that long. There's going to be trends, especially play to earn things is very trendy. It's very ponzi like. They can collapse as fast as they kind of like increase in value. So there's that there. And then Ms.
01:19:52.590 - 01:20:30.034, Speaker A: Bonnie goes on to kind of like, say that a bot is driving a lot of the value, which again, is not necessarily a bad thing, but at the same time, these bots are just kind of like sucking out value from this game, from the real players at the end of the day, like Mev sort of thing. So there's that. But then you can kind of see Ethereum's fear of a new breakdown here. And no single contract drives more than 50%, 15% of the fear revenue on Ethereum. So the most popular ones are Opensea, Uniswap, Gem, USDT and USDC. And then you can see that other accounts for, like, more than, I think, 60% of the fear of a new here. So, I mean, Ethereum has a very, very healthy market of many, many different use cases driving this fee revenue.
01:20:30.034 - 01:21:01.274, Speaker A: So, you know, that's very sustainable, right? This is not something that's going to go away anytime soon. And we've seen it sustained through both bullish and bearish periods for such a long time now. I mean, the fees started spiking, like, I guess you could say like maybe early 2020 or something like that. So it's been over two years at this point where a theorem sphere when you has, has been very sustainable over bull and bear periods there. So there's this kind of like that happening here. So I thought this was just a really great thread to kind of, of contextualize what's happening on, on not, you know, not just avalanche, but like on every chain. When it comes to fear renew.
01:21:01.274 - 01:21:27.674, Speaker A: It's always good to dig down and see what's sustainable and what's not. And I think that the theorem has proven to be sustainable for over two years now. A theorem, block space is just in such high demand. It's just incredible. I mean, seriously guys, like the demand for block space has actually outstripped even my kind of like my predictions and my kind of like thoughts on it. I didn't think we could sustain for this long, but we have, we've sustained it and it just keeps going. And we're burning that ETH too, which is even more amazing.
01:21:27.674 - 01:21:50.772, Speaker A: Tens of millions of ETH is burned each day. And I'm going to talk about that impact in a sec with that, with my bullish rant. But yeah, anyway, great thread from Ms. Bunny here. You can check this out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right, so Zero X announced that they have raised, or zero X Labs, I should say, an additional $70 million in a series B round led by Grey Lock VC here and with a bunch of other investors on board as well.
01:21:50.772 - 01:22:06.192, Speaker A: Well, so this is, I think there's a bunch of other investors. Yeah, yeah, there's a bunch of other investors here. So this is a quite a big raise. I mean, Zero X is actually a pretty big ecosystem now. They've been through a lot over the years. They started in 2017, they didn't ICO. I remember participating in that ICR actually back then.
01:22:06.192 - 01:22:23.910, Speaker A: They've had a token since then. The token hasn't performed very well, but the ecosystem has grown like they have. They're on a bunch of different chains now. They have a bunch of different integrations. They have their own matcha product, which is their own kind of like deck aggregator, which is driving a lot of volume and things like that. But yeah, I guess congrats to them on raising $70 million here. That's a huge raise.
01:22:23.910 - 01:22:58.714, Speaker A: I'm assuming that this raise was done by selling tokens in like at a discount, which is, which is fine, I guess. But I'm actually like, the funny thing is like Zero X as a project is awesome. I'm really, really bullish on the project. I think that their growth has been awesome. They've come, you know, they're Defi ogs, but their token is just like, I don't know it just doesn't really want to do anything right. So I guess, like there's that this happens with a lot of kind of like DeFi projects where the project does really well, but the token kind of like stagnates doesn't do very well and just kind of like, doesn't, doesn't move at all and just keep news down only. Right.
01:22:58.714 - 01:23:40.640, Speaker A: But, but doesn't change the fact that they were able, still able to raise $70 million here to keep building out their vision, to keep deploying to, I guess, more change, doing more integrations, building more. Very, very cool stuff. So congrats again to Xerox labs here. All right, we have another raise here from Arjun, who have raised $40 million in a series, be around to, I guess, continue building their mobile app out to support more Defi and web3 infrastructure here. So the round, I think was if they got the announcement of who led this round here, not, I guess, not in the he, not in the, the twitter thread here, maybe on the blog post. No, I'm not seeing anything right here. So I'm not sure the, who the investors are, but still $40 million and nothing to scoff out.
01:23:40.640 - 01:23:58.936, Speaker A: That's a great kind of, I guess, round here. And Argent's been around for a while too. I mean, come up exactly when they started. It might have been 2018, but yeah, they've been around for a while. They've been doing a bunch of different integrations. I think Argent got hurt by the layer one gas fees because they're a smart contract wallet. And obviously generating a smart contract wallet when gas fees are high is very, very expensive.
01:23:58.936 - 01:24:19.424, Speaker A: So they've had to re architect, move to L2, which they've done now that L2 integrations are very, very awesome. And their wallet in general is just great. So I guess congrats to them on this, on this funding. This is going to allow them to continue product development, expanding into Latin America, and hiring, of course. So they are hiring just like pretty much every team in crypto is. You can check out their open roles here. I'll link it in the YouTube description.
01:24:19.424 - 01:24:51.416, Speaker A: So hash flow has now launched their hash flow bridgeless bridge less cross chain swaps product powered by layer zero labs. You can go to app dot hash flow.com to start using this. Now, this currently supports Ethereum, Avalanche, BSC, Abba, shrimp, arbitrary and polygons PoS chain. So you can basically do cross chain source between all of these, all of these networks using layer zero under the hood. Very, very cool here how it works. Market makers manage liquidity pools on both, on both chains, traders request quotes.
01:24:51.416 - 01:25:22.054, Speaker A: Market makers issue quotes which traders submit to kick off the first transfer. Cross chain messaging channels deliver payload to the destination to perform this second transfer. That's all the magic behind the scenes and how it all happens here. So if you want to go try it out, you can, as I said at app dot hash flow, definitely go check it out. Very, very cool to see more of these kind of like cross chain swap solutions. Go live within the crypto ecosystem here. Alright, so I just wanted to highlight this new guide from John here who has a guy running an ethereum node.
01:25:22.054 - 01:25:47.370, Speaker A: Should be, but he said running a theorem node should be a simple, simple as donating an app, downloading an app. I am building node, app to make this easy, sorry, nice node to make this easy. So this isn't just a guide, this is also kind of like an app you can see here. Nice node, run a node, just press start. So essentially this is what I was talking about when I was talking about the lighter stuff. We need to make it super easy people to run nodes, stake ETH, do all this sorts of stuff. And this is kind of like one thing that John has kind of like built and launched into alpha today.
01:25:47.370 - 01:26:30.552, Speaker A: So if you're looking to I guess test this out or to looking to run Ethereum nodes and it's kind of like it gets daunting for you to do so and you want just an easier way to do it, you should definitely check out nice node here from John. This is very, very cool. I hope that he keeps building this, I hope that he builds out ones for kind of like um, with, with staking as well. And I hope that he kind of continues this, I hope that he gets fine, this is more, I guess like this is a prime example of something that is a public good that would, that would need funding and that we should be funding because at the end of the day, like if these people don't build it, then who is going to build it? Like I thought more people would build at this point. But there's kind of like a tragedy of the commons where the things that deliver the most value, the things that we need the most of just don't get built. That's how we need public goods funding for these sorts of things. So definitely very, very cool to see this.
01:26:30.552 - 01:27:11.006, Speaker A: And yeah, I hope that, that John gets funding for the, John's gets funding for this either through I guess like optimism or git coin or some other kind of like thing like the f or something like that. Very, very cool. Definitely check this out. Alright, so I spoke about this before, but I just wanted to highlight it. Highlight it again. So, as I said yesterday, yesterday Solana fell over again, had to be restarted for like the nth time. I don't know how many times it's been now, but there was a screenshot of this kind of like discord chat with this Solana validators, where one of them, Leo from Certis one, was suggesting that blocking certain projects that were spamming the network, or certain smart contracts that were spanning the network is perfectly fine for now.
01:27:11.006 - 01:27:41.640, Speaker A: And then Leo goes on to say, I'd rather have a network that is up without nfts versus a network that is down. And you can see the emoji reactions here. People are actually in favor of this. This is pretty bad, guys. I mean, this isn't just like something that's bad for Solana, this is bad for the ecosystem. There shouldn't be suggestions like this made because these platforms are supposed to be maximally censorship resistant. I mean, Solana has been talking about being the most censorship resistant platform for kind of like, things here.
01:27:41.640 - 01:28:34.510, Speaker A: And if their only solution to stopping the network from going down is to censor projects because they say that they're spam, then how is this any better than the centralized systems that we already have? It's not. And I've been going on about this a lot, because this is very fundamental to blockchain. This is something that needs to be thwarted every time it's brought up. Ethereum, if a theorem, if someone in the theorem was to ever suggest this, it would immediately be shot down. But here you have one of the top validators, I believe, on Solana suggesting this with support from people, just because they can't kind of like scale layer one, or they don't want to introduce a fee market, which they're going to do anyway. But this is kind of like really, really bad. And I think this kind of like, lends itself to something else that I've been thinking about lately, which is this great debate between modular and monolithic designs, which, even if you could extrapolate it around further, it's a debate around how to manage block space, like how to manage demand for block space.
01:28:34.510 - 01:29:22.536, Speaker A: There's two ways to do it. You either censor transactions or you do quality control, where you drop transactions that you suspect is spam, which I am so against, and I think is just a completely broken system, and we don't need that. Or you do a fee market which regulates supply and demand of blocks but block space, which works fucking amazingly, right? It does like the, yes, okay, the fees go up when there's more demand and it outstrips supply of block space. But that is much better to me than a network falling over, and I'll explain why. So there's this concept of liveness, right? Ethereum as a network has been live since day zero. It has not gone offline at all. And this is thanks in large part due to its limited gas limit or limited block size, which basically limits its, limits, its block space and its fee market, which regulates the block space, which are basically stops people from being able to spam the network.
01:29:22.536 - 01:29:54.976, Speaker A: So that is exactly why Ethereum has been able to be live for so long. Now. Why is liveness important, especially for a smart contract chain? Well, it's critically important because of the fact that on a smart contract chain you have a lot of things going on all the time that require real time kind of like updates like Oracle's for example, Mev keeping prices in check. Can you imagine the ethereum network going offline for 10 hours? What that would do to the kind of like prices of everything? What if the market moved like 10% down across the board? People were going to get liquidated before they can say their positions. Mev bots are going to go crazy. It's people going to lose something. It's going to be so much value leaked.
01:29:54.976 - 01:30:34.894, Speaker A: It's going to, it'll be, it'll be really bad. When the network came online and everything had to be kind of like reshuffled again, a lot of people will get hurt. So that's why liveness is absolutely critical now. Okay, the high fees on layer one are bad. How do we get around that? Like live? This is all well and good, but if only the rich can afford to use the chain, then it's kind of like useless for 99% of people. That's fair, right? Well, then we take the modular scaling approach and we do L2s, right? We make it so that the L2s get very, very cheap fees and then they're happy paying the expensive fees to layer one because they're generating their own fee revenue at L2 from their users in aggregate by using, by, by providing more transactions per second. And that pays for the economic security on Ethereum.
01:30:34.894 - 01:31:37.942, Speaker A: So as I've explained before, we keep Ethereum maximally decentralized, secure, sustainable and healthy by limiting what can be done at layer one and just charging L2s to use it, while all the users set at the L2 layer and enjoy really cheap transactions and post dank shining, they're going to enjoy ultra cheap transactions with that liveness guarantee, with the liveness guarantee for L2s because they want to be able to post their data and post their proofs to aetherium and Ethereum remains extremely secure and decentralized. Like, I just, this design just makes so much sense to me, guys. Like, I haven't seen anyone being able to poke holes in this design. The best, I guess like I guess bear case for this design, or I guess like the best, or I guess like the, the most negative thing about this design that I've been able to come up with is the fragmentation of, I guess like liquidity and composability. But this is solved on in the long term by being able to share state across these L2s with proto dank sharding and other kind of like such mechanisms, which is going to be amazing. And also it's solved in the short to medium term with bridges and cross chain swaps and all that sort of stuff. As I just spoke about, like cashflow went live with one of their apps.
01:31:37.942 - 01:32:12.224, Speaker A: There's plenty of things going live. This stuff is not a death now for the modular design. It's just something that we have to work around. And in my light it's better because as I've said before, I've said this for so long after this, for years at this point, it is impossible to scale everything on a layer one chain without either implementing a fee market, which means you're just basically back to square one of high fees or dropping transactions and regulating them through some kind of subjective mechanism which just defeats the entire purpose of a blockchain. So I am not going to change my opinion on this. I don't think it makes too much sense. We.
01:32:12.224 - 01:32:41.078, Speaker A: The modular approach is based on years and years worth of development and research from the top minds in this space. And we've seen this monolithic kind of strategy fail time and time again. I don't need any more proof at this point. I'm convinced, like I was convinced in the EoS era, that scaling everything at layer one would not work. And then we've had more chains come along and do it because you can get away with it short term and all that sorts of stuff, but we're seeing the cracks they're playing out on real time. They're playing it a lot sooner than I thought they would, to be honest. I thought that, I didn't think that Solana would be down this often.
01:32:41.078 - 01:32:56.742, Speaker A: But it is, and it's not just only down. It also suffers from performance issues because bots just spam the network, and. And that was. Everyone predicted it would happen. This is not a new thing. So, yeah, anyway, that's a bit of a rant there about that. I hope that you guys are seeing what I've been banging on about for years now.
01:32:56.742 - 01:33:19.614, Speaker A: I hope you guys can understand why sometimes get really upset. People call me an ETH maxi because I just. I'm not an ETH max. I just think that all the innovation, or at least 99% of the innovation, is happening in Ethereum. There are some innovations happening on other chains. I've mentioned them before. I think the Cosmos IBC is pretty cool for an interchange messaging platform, but I think Cosmos as an ecosystem is just not really going to take off in the long term.
01:33:19.614 - 01:33:46.364, Speaker A: I think app chains are a cool idea, but done at L2, I don't think most chains care or need to be a sovereign chain, need to be able to bootstrap their own validator set. It just doesn't make any sense to me. And I just get called a fada, or I get called an ETH maxi for saying these sorts of things, and then they play out exactly as I say that they're going to play out. So, like, at that point, I'm just like, okay, well, I don't want to be like, I told you so. I don't want to give myself an ego, but I kind of look at that. I'm just like, I knew it. Like, this isn't a surprise to me, so I hope it's the same for you guys.
01:33:46.364 - 01:34:19.396, Speaker A: I see a lot of you guys saying this, similar sort of things in the Discord channel, which is awesome to see, but at the same time, don't just take my word for it. Go learn from other people. Go explore other ecosystems. Like, there's nothing wrong with using other ecosystems, exploring it, seeing how it ticks, and then kind of like, realizing that, you know, a lot of these problems Ethereum has already solved or is working to solve in the future, because it ran into them a lot sooner than other chains did. And I have this popular thing that I say that pretty much all the l ones are just making their way back to a theorem. They're all gonna look like a theory, and eventually they're all gonna have roll ups. But I don't think that any of them are going to be able to catch a theorem at all.
01:34:19.396 - 01:34:46.848, Speaker A: I don't think their tokens are gonna accrue much value long term. I think it's gonna bleed its value to ETH because ETH is able to capture its value much, much better. It has a monetary premium, all that sorts of good stuff there. So that's my little rant about that there now. Now I think I'm going to begin my bullish rant, which is the final part of this mega episode. So. And before I do that, I just wanted to quickly mention that Tim Biker put out a great tweet here where he says, and this follows on to my bullish tweet, he says in the next year.
01:34:46.848 - 01:35:22.756, Speaker A: He thinks that Ethereum as core developers can ship proof of stake obviously with the merge ship withdrawals. Ship 48, 44 roll up fee reductions, which is kind of like proto dank sharding ship improvements to the EVM, align the execution layer, consensus layer, governance, and maybe have a path for quicker EVM upgrades outside of layer one. This is something interesting that I'm not going to talk about today. There isn't too many details about it, but when there is more details about, I will talk about this. But this is really, really cool, having a path for quicker EVM upgrades outside of l one there. So that's cool. To see Tim put some kind of like timelines behind it again, timelines in Ethereum is just like really, really hard.
01:35:22.756 - 01:36:08.802, Speaker A: But I think once the merge is done, we're going to be having quicker upgrades because these other upgrades are simpler than the merge there, less risky than the merge. And they're actually, I think even more critical because they user facing upgrades at the day. But yeah, that leads me to my bullish rant. So over the last 24, 48 hours we had the latest yuga labs kind of like NFT mint, right where they minted some kind of like land. And I did it on layer one of theorem for some reason. And thanks to that they burned, you know, I think like a, you know, only a few hours, 55,000 each in those, in that time. That is over $150 million worth of ETH guys, in like a few hours, this smashed all burn records like for etherium since August last year, since 1559 went live.
01:36:08.802 - 01:36:34.610, Speaker A: This is a shit ton of heat that got burnt. That's $150 million that didn't go to the NFT mint. This is just from people wanting to pay the fees, wanting to front on other people wanting to mint these things because of the fact that they wanted to flip them on secondary markets. This is insane, guys. Like the NFT system just continues to amaze me, just absolutely crazy. And this meant that like ETH is like ultra deflationary at this point under proof of work, imagine under proof of stake. Like, it's just crazy.
01:36:34.610 - 01:37:06.506, Speaker A: And when I look at the current price, I'm just kind of like, people got no idea. Like, the current price is such a meme. I'm looking at this being like, buying a tier to me is a fucking bargain. Like, I can't believe it is still trading at this price given all the bullish kind of like mechanisms happening here. And that's this is what actually led me to, to this tweet that I put out a few days ago where I said, I remember in 2019 there was so much bullish news for Ethereum, but the price of ETH didn't react to it at all. And now I feel that a similar thing has been happening over the last six months, maybe six to twelve months. But now we have even more bullish catalysts for Ethereum like the merge.
01:37:06.506 - 01:37:21.478, Speaker A: And I just said, just keep it stacking. That, ETH, friends, is exactly what I'm doing, by the way. I'm just keep stacking there. As I said, I think that the current prices are still not investment advice. That's just my own personal kind of like views on these things. But let's recap here, guys. Like, I know I haven't done one of these rants for a little bit.
01:37:21.478 - 01:37:39.578, Speaker A: Like, the market's been shitty lately. We went to 3600, then we went back to 2700. Now we're at like 2800 or something. It's choppy. It's very hard to trade this sort of stuff. So why should you continue to be bullish on ETH? Well, okay, friends, the merge, I've talked about this plenty of times before. The merge is the single most bullish thing to happen in crypto's history.
01:37:39.578 - 01:38:00.674, Speaker A: It is the single most underpriced thing to happen in Crypto's history. It is not priced in. Anyone who tells you that is priced in is stupid, in my opinion. How can something be like this be priced in where most people have no idea what's coming? We have a 80% to 90% issuance reduction. We have staking APY being bumped up, which means more ETH is being, is going to be staked. We're already seeing that happen. Two week plus queues of ETH being staked.
01:38:00.674 - 01:38:32.976, Speaker A: It's happening, guys. Like, more ETH is being locked up here. We have 1559 burning a shit ton of ETH. That's just a crazy amount of it, right? We have a theorem no longer having to deal with the bad narratives around proof of work that are going to be happening with, with the merge there, which is, which is obviously awesome in of itself. We have kind of like once the merge is being done, we have those other upgrades that are going to be able to be shipped very, very quickly. We have deflationary ETH obviously happening there and that's just kind of like on the merge side of things now. Next L2 ecosystem absolutely exploding.
01:38:32.976 - 01:38:46.914, Speaker A: We just had optimism announce its token. We're going to have the other ones do that soon. Growth is steady there. It's going, it's going really nicely. Cool. Very, very cool to see that not just on kind of like the, the actual stuff that's live today. The innovation side, funding of L2s is through the roof.
01:38:46.914 - 01:39:00.906, Speaker A: It's crazy. It's awesome. You guys know all about that, right? And the NFT ecosystem is still exploding. Still absolutely massive. Still, still going for it. And it's going to be going for it for a while yet. And even if they move to L2s, it's going to drive activity up there.
01:39:00.906 - 01:39:24.680, Speaker A: It'll drive activity back to live one aetherium and then we're going to burn, burn more ETH there. So, so very, very cool there. Lots of innovation happening across defi, even if you're not paying attention to it. I'm seeing a lot of really cool things happening there. And defy still growing a bit slower than other things, but it's of course still growing there. And there's other network upgrades that are coming, as I said, are going to be user facing, which is really, really cool. Very, very bullish stuff happening.
01:39:24.680 - 01:40:07.512, Speaker A: More and more of institutions are getting on board, I think with a theorem and ETH now, especially post merge, when that apy bumps up from the unburnt fear revenue going to, going to stakers, that's going to be absolutely massive. I think as I said, we're already seeing the FOMo in with the validator queue and stuff like that. Now if that wasn't enough to, to make you bullish, a bullish. I think just from a kind of like a pure technical price perspective, the fact that the macro environment looks really right now, like if I'm being honest, you know, inflation is out of control, interest rates are poised to rise. Um, not as much as people expect that they will, but they will rise, I believe, just because they have to. Um, we have the stock market just absolutely shitting the bed, especially tech stocks. They're going, they're really, really, they're down really bad.
01:40:07.512 - 01:40:34.102, Speaker A: I know if you saw what happened in Netflix, guys, it got brutal, brutalized, right? Made crypto look like a plaything compared to what happened. Netflix there, as far as I know, the S P 500 had one of its biggest drops last Friday. You know, in a while. I think maybe even since the COVID drop, it dropped like 3.6% in a day, which is huge for stocks, guys. Like, that's a normal day in crypto, but very, very huge for stocks. On the backdrop of all of that, ETH is still not set new lows.
01:40:34.102 - 01:41:17.704, Speaker A: It still at around $3,000. Now, why is that? Well, coming back to 2019, this is the same thing that happened. ETH bumped around from like one hundred dollars to three hundred sixty dollars. It was more volatile back then. But if you look at kind of like what's happening today, ETH has been bumping around from what, 2200 to 3600, right, over the last few months or so, six months or something like that. Um, if you look at that and put that into context, if he's doing amazingly compared to what the backdrop it currently has. And why is that? I truly believe that in the short term, in the short to medium term, fundamentals don't act as a demand driver, that act as a cushion for the dumping.
01:41:17.704 - 01:41:39.384, Speaker A: Because think about it like this. If you are holding an asset and you know that there's a lot of great fundamentals backing this asset, you know there's a lot of bullish catalysts coming for this asset. You know that a lot of people don't know this. And you have an information advantage here. You're not going to sell. You're going to keep stacking. So the already, the people that already have eat, the people that are keeping their ETH, they're probably going to keep buying ETH.
01:41:39.384 - 01:42:11.934, Speaker A: So that is a demand driver there. But they're not going to be, I don't think they're going to attribute for, like, enough demand. They're not going to have enough demand to push the price up, but they will have enough demand to both stabilize the price and they're not going to be selling their ETH, which also stabilizes the price. And that's why I think from a technical level, the price has kind of like just been ranging here and hasn't dropped to two new lows there. Now, on top of that, look at a lot of the other assets that don't have this sorts of stuff. They've been killed. There are a lot of assets in crypto right now that are down a lot from their all time highs.
01:42:11.934 - 01:42:48.428, Speaker A: ETH is down about 40% or something like that from its all time high, but there are a lot of assets that are down 70, 80, 90% from their all time high. And some of these were like the things that everyone was talking about. And this is simply because they don't have fundamentals backing that up. And I mean, obviously the liquidity matters as well. There's not as much liquidity for these things, but, you know, a lot of them just don't have those short to medium or even long term fundamentals backing it up. So people are like, okay, well, I'm not going to hold this, I'm going to sell this for something that does have fundamentals. Don't want to sell it for cash, because at least in the, in the very short term they may go to cash, but definitely the medium term, they don't want to be in cash with inflation the way it is.
01:42:48.428 - 01:43:36.686, Speaker A: So they're either maybe going to, you know, yield farm with their stable coins, or they're going to buy an asset that they have a very strong conviction and confidence in. And I think for most people that falls into BTC and ETH. Like, obviously I can't forget about BTC, even though I'm not bullish on it. I know a lot of people are, and that's fine. But I think, you know, within the ethereum ecosystem, you're going back to ETH, and this is why 99% of things will underperform ETH over the long run, because people trade better, sorry, people trade their worst assets for better assets. You don't want to sit in cash long term because you'll just get eaten away by inflation, especially in the inflationary kind of like dynamics that we're seeing today. But you also don't want to kind of like, you know, buy into something straight away when you've cashed out because you might be thinking, okay, well, maybe I'll wait a little bit to see what the market does and kind of like play it by ear, or maybe you'll DCA in.
01:43:36.686 - 01:44:09.138, Speaker A: So maybe you've cashed out like, you know, just as an example, maybe you cashed out like 50 grand in kind of like cash, and you're like, okay, well, I'm gonna sit on this for a little while, but I don't wanna sit up for too long because I'm gonna lose to inflation, but I'm gonna DCA into ETH, for example. And that's what a lot of people do. And it's a, it's a decent strategy. I think it's a great strategy. I mean, I technically DCA in not because I don't have the cash on hand, just because, like, the cash is just coming in and I'm kind of, like, buying, and I've bought at the all time high and I've bought, like, at the lows. Like, it's just the way it happens. And over time, you average out a price, and then eventually, once the market go, it's really going again.
01:44:09.138 - 01:44:33.338, Speaker A: Once we get out of a range and we start going into, like, a proper bull market again, that's where, you know, you obviously see the most gains, and that's where your DCA pays off. And that's exactly what I did in 2019. Most people don't know this about me, but I bought most of my ETH in the bear market. Like, I like the majority of it. I think. I think I bought 80% or something of my ETH in the bear market. And that's simply because in 2017, I didn't have much money and ETH ran away from me, like, very, very quickly.
01:44:33.338 - 01:44:57.560, Speaker A: I remember buying ETH, and then it just started mooning, and I put all my money that I could into ETH while it was mooning, and then it just ran completely away from me. It went to $420 by June, and I just didn't have enough money at that point. I was not. I mean, I was getting paid, like, fortnightly, and I'm trying to put in as much money as I could into it, but I had other commitments, other bills, stuff like that. And then, you know, obviously, ETH went even crazier than that. And. Yeah, and then during the bear market, I had more money.
01:44:57.560 - 01:45:20.072, Speaker A: I was saving. I had, and I was able to save for longer while the price stayed flat. And I bought most of my ETH then, and I'm buying a lot of ETH now. Like, I, you know, I consider what we've been into that bear market, right? I mean, it has been since the last all time high of 4900, which happened in, like, November, I believe. So, yeah. We've been in a bear market since then. But obviously, I don't believe that's going to last forever.
01:45:20.072 - 01:45:44.680, Speaker A: Obviously, I'm extremely bullish on Ethan. Obviously, there's a ton of reasons to still be bullish on ETH. As I outlined, and I've outlined this plenty of times on the refuel. I think you guys maybe just needed a reminder, a refresher there to keep the faith. And does this mean that new lows can't happen? I mean, no, not necessarily. Like, there is always a chance of that happening. I'm not guaranteeing anything here, but like, it's been months now of this really negative backdrop and ETH has held on so well.
01:45:44.680 - 01:46:19.306, Speaker A: And as I said, I think that's because east fundamentals have never been stronger and a lot of market participants know this, especially the bigger mount, bigger money. They know this. And post merge, look, I don't know what's going to happen around the merge, post merge, I don't know what the price is going to do. But I think, you know, over the long, long term, the five to ten year term, I still think my 100k price target is, is in play. I just, I don't see how it doesn't go to that. I don't like we have no precedent for what's about to happen to ETH with that massive issuance reduction of 80% to 90%. The fact that miners aren't going to be kind of like selling anymore because there are no miners, right? There's stakers.
01:46:19.306 - 01:46:52.776, Speaker A: Obviously stakers will sell, but at a much slower clip than what miners do. And we've never seen a network go from proof of work to proof of stake like this, especially not one as big as Ethereum. So just taking all that together, taking all these catalysts and just like taking a bird's eye view of things, there has never been a better time to be in a theory and there's never been a better time to be holding ETH, in my opinion. I just think that there's just so much bullish stuff happening and there's more and more stuff coming as time goes on. We're perpetually burning so much ethic. It's just crazy guys. Like, it's, I mean, the 1559 exceeded all my expectations.
01:46:52.776 - 01:47:14.926, Speaker A: I think that the issuance reduction is going to also exceed my expectations of what it can do for ethics. And I don't think people are ready for this. I don't think anyone owns enough ETH. Maybe the north korean Lazarus group group owns enough ETH now because they own hundreds of thousands of ETH from that rodent hack. But you know, I don't think any of us own enough either. I think we can keep stacking more. I'm going to keep stacking more.
01:47:14.926 - 01:47:28.994, Speaker A: I'm down in the trenches stacking it. I don't care what the price is doing. In the short to medium term, it's going to do what it's going to do, but long term, I'm bullish as fuck. I hope all of you are as well. There's that bullish ran. I hope that got you up to. I hope that got you kind of, like, bullish there, guys.
01:47:28.994 - 01:47:48.898, Speaker A: Like, I'm getting to the end of what I can do now. I'm still jet lagged. So, like, I think I'm going to end that mega episode there tomorrow. We're gonna be back to our regularly scheduled half an hour episodes. But I really hope you enjoyed this, this long one. I hope it covered all the major things that happened over the last two weeks. I don't think I'm gonna be taking a break for a while again here.
01:47:48.898 - 01:48:05.498, Speaker A: Maybe a couple days here and there. If I. If I go kind of like traveling with my fiance or something like that, but definitely not for two weeks again, for the foreseeable future. I had withdrawals from the refuel as much as you guys did. Honestly, like, not doing it for two weeks felt super, super weird. I was like, oh, my God. Like, I need to be reporting on this.
01:48:05.498 - 01:48:18.194, Speaker A: And he'd be talking about this. And then when optimism did their token, I'm like, ah, I'm going crazy. I always did a mini episode on just optimism, but then I was in my hotel. It was like, I think it was like, 11:00 p.m. And I'm like, oh, my God. God, I'm so tired. And the Internet's not great.
01:48:18.194 - 01:48:33.098, Speaker A: Yeah, I'm not even gonna worry about it. So I just waited. I did it then, but I think that's it for now. So I'm gonna go splice all this together, put this out for you, for you guys now. And by the time you. You've heard me say that, you've watched it, so you got to enjoy it all. But, yeah, I guess.
01:48:33.098 - 01:48:41.794, Speaker A: Thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give your thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
