00:00:00.440 - 00:01:16.774, Speaker A: What is up guys? Taiki here and in this video I'll be going over the major changes coming to uniswap V three, what that means for liquidity providers and the three projects that I'm looking at that's tackling uniswap v three that could really benefit leading up to the launch in early May. If you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. Let's get started so Unisolt v three professionalizes liquidity provision by introducing concentrated liquidity for capital efficiency. If that doesn't make sense, don't worry, it's like a bunch of buzzwords, but I'll be going over what this actually means right now. So with V two, when you're providing liquidity, you just have to provide the same amount of, you know, both asset pairs, like five k eth and five k dai, and provide liquidity on ESOp V two. And another way to think about this is that when you provide liquidity on V two, liquidity is evenly distributed on this curve, right? So if, if you think about it, v two introduced a passive LP strategy where you can just pull eth and die and you don't really have to think about what that means, you're just going to blindly do it and the LP tokens will just give you fees. But with V three, the change that they've introduced is with capital efficiency due to concentrated liquidity.
00:01:16.774 - 00:02:08.824, Speaker A: So with V three, instead of providing liquidity evenly distributed on the curve, you can essentially choose the price ranges that you want to provide liquidity for. So this is a diagram that the Uniswap team shared, where with V two, you know, you have to provide liquidity spread across the full price curve. But with V three, you can concentrate your liquidity between two price ranges. So in this example, Bob is spending less money, right, to provide liquidity, but he's concentrating his liquidity between the price range 1000 and 2500. And by doing so, he can spend less capital but earn more fees from it, right? This is capital efficiency due to concentrated liquidity. So if you think about it, V three is going to require a more active LP strategy to maximize capital efficiency in ROI. With Unisol V two, you can just provide liquidity and just like be hands off about it.
00:02:08.824 - 00:02:44.728, Speaker A: But with V three, as the price of the asset changes. So in that example. So let's say eth, right now the price is 2500. So I can currently provide liquidity between the price range two to $3,000, right? But if eth goes to five k. Well, that two to three k Lp is no longer going to be generating fees because price is not there. So I'll have to pull out that liquidity and do a new LP between the price range four to six k, something along those lines. So another way to think about the major implications is that with V two, all LP tokens are fungible.
00:02:44.728 - 00:03:13.994, Speaker A: So let's say I provide $10,000 worth of liquidity and you provide $100,000 with liquidity. Well, we're all like, we're all distributed, like putting l. We're all providing liquidity evenly distributed on the script. So those tokens are, those LP tokens are interchangeable. They're fungible. However, with V three, you know, we're now we're all going to be providing different amounts of liquidity for different price ranges. And these LP tokens cannot be swapped within each other.
00:03:13.994 - 00:03:54.474, Speaker A: So these LP tokens are non fungible. And this has major implications on how we provide liquidity and has given rise to new protocols that are trying to tackle. How can you address this issue? Right, because if I want to be an LP in the future, I can no longer just passively do it. I have to, like, always manage it, which is going to, which is going to cause headaches. And it kind of professionalizes LP on uniswap V three. So I'm thinking that protocols that can automate uni V three LP strategies can accrue value, and no one's really talking about it, right. I think they're overlooked and I think they're really, really undervalued.
00:03:54.474 - 00:04:25.102, Speaker A: So I think it could be a good way to invest and maybe potentially do like a short term short to medium trade. Short to medium term trade. So with that being said, these are the three protocols that I'm personally looking at. And a quick disclaimer. I'm making this video on April 15, and these teams are publishing medium articles almost every single day. So depending on when you're watching this, a lot of facts can change. And the second disclaimer is that I own visor tokens, and I'll be going over why I own visor above the other ones when I get to that section.
00:04:25.102 - 00:04:54.534, Speaker A: So first elixir. I'm going to go over this first quickly, because they don't actually have a token yet. They're the first automated liquidity concentrator, or as they claim. And, you know, once they release the token and understand the tokenomics, I'll be looking at this more in detail. The second I want to take a look at is x token and this. They're a 20 million market cap, fully diluted, 860 million. And they have two products that they're not just focusing on Uniswap V three, but the first product that they launched is this idea of X tokens.
00:04:54.534 - 00:05:32.850, Speaker A: And X tokens are a way, it's like a different form of governance tokens, like a primitive where for example, XKNCA. So when you have a governance token, like you want to stake it and you'll want to claim rewards and you'll have to restake it and then you have to vote, which all takes gas, which is not ideal. With X token, you can delegate all those tasks to the protocol where you can claim, restake and vote gaslessly. And how it votes is each x token has a mandate. So for this example, this XKNCA is going to vote to maximize staker rewards. It's going to automate everything for you. So that's a pretty cool product.
00:05:32.850 - 00:06:18.630, Speaker A: And two weeks ago, they announced a new product for Unisol V three. And the five pairs that they're going to be launching are three USDC pairs, stablecoin pairs and 8th pair and a BTC pair. So you know, this makes sense conceptually because. Because they're the same asset pair, right? Like the protocol can assume that the price is not going to differ from each other. So for USDC and Dai, this LP can just focus on 0.999 to 1.01 range, which makes sense, right? So it's not, I feel like it's not that novel, but they're tackling this issue throughout, through this and in terms of social proof.
00:06:18.630 - 00:07:02.444, Speaker A: Hayden Adams actually retweeted X tokens tweets a couple weeks ago. So, you know, Hayden is actually, Hayden is the founder of Uniswap. So, you know, he's acknowledging that this type of protocol is needed when V three comes out. And by far they have the most total value locked. Most of this is the x tokens, not the Uniswap V three tokens, because it's not launched yet, but by far they have the largest network effects. Lastly, I'll be going overvisor and this is a token that I actually own with a 26 million market cap with $100 million fully diluted. And the cool thing about visor is that it allows you to mint an NFT vault, right? And within that vault you can stake single single sided liquidity.
00:07:02.444 - 00:08:10.152, Speaker A: So for example, I can just stake ETH into the vault and visor will just do that op for me, right? So it's less headaches, it's less transactions. I'll pay less gas. And within the vault, because it's an NFT vault, they have a way where when you're moving liquidity around, all you need to do is provide a signature. You don't have to pay gas with whatever you're doing inside the vault, from my understanding, which is pretty, which is a pretty neat idea, because paying gas always sucks. So this is what a supervisor looks like. I'll be going over what this actually means. So let's say in our advisor vault, I stake ETH, and I tell the supervisor that to know this LP this ETH for me to generate the highest returns, right? Like aggregate the best deal for me and the supervisor, right, for Uniswap v three will take your ETH and automatically lp your staked assets for you, 90% of the fees will be reinvested and 10% of all fees generated by visor will be used to buy buyback visor on the market, right? And this is going to occur for the top 15 Uniswap LP pairs as soon as Uniswap V three launches.
00:08:10.152 - 00:08:56.582, Speaker A: So I think this is more novel than X token, because, you know, they're focusing on, they're not only focusing on stable pairs, right? Because top 15 LP pairs, it's going to be like WBTC ETH, ETH, USDC, WBtC USDC. So it's a lot more complicated. So I think there's gonna be a lot more demand for visor in the future. I'm just speculating, right? And that's why I chose to invest in visor, and they also have pretty good tokenomics. And the single sided staking aspect is really cool to me. That's one of the way the reasons I like Bancorp. So how I'm trading all these tokens, right, especially advisor, is that I think that these projects are gonna be hyped up, leading to the uniswap e three launch.
00:08:56.582 - 00:10:15.170, Speaker A: So for me, I'm gonna buy the token now and sell the news when uniswap v three launches, right? Buy the rumor, sell the news, because our markets are so inefficient. I feel like these types of tokens, I feel like five days before uniswap V three launches, a bunch of crypto Twitter shills, YouTube shills, they're going to make those exclamation faces and be like, oh, these are the x token, 100 x from here, right? Even though all the move has already happened. So that's the way I'm approaching this because I don't think these protocols are going to have a necessarily super high market cap because aside from x token, these uni V three types of protocols are just focused on uni v three and like providing liquidity and being an yield aggregator for the concentrated liquidity idea. And although, you know, sushiswap and other amms can copy univ three and implement concentrated liquidity, that might increase the value of these protocols. But for me personally, this is a short term trade that's gonna just be taking advantage of market psychology. Leading up to the Uniswap V three launch, if you remember, the price of unitokens went really high leading up to v three announcement and then as soon as it was announced, it dumped. Right? So I feel like the same can happen to these types of tokens.
00:10:15.170 - 00:10:55.860, Speaker A: And you know, I always tell myself, never marry an altcoin because for me the goal is to always stack sats and buy more eth. So with that being said, here's a summary. The one thing that worries me is that the visor team is anonymous. For a protocol that's trying to tackle this big of a topic that's really complex, I wish that I could be able to audit their past work and see who they are. With anonymous teams, I have nothing against them, but it's hard to audit their actual skills. And in terms of comparing XDK and advisor, XDK is a more mature protocol. They actually have x tokens, which is a built out product of smart governance tokens.
00:10:55.860 - 00:11:26.830, Speaker A: And now they're trying to create a new product for Univ three. So in terms of better longer term investments, I feel like XDK is it. But for right now I'm only focusing on the short term. So my money is with advisor, which specializes in uni V three, which I really like. And the single sided asset staking, that's really cool. And this is cool because it's like a yield aggregator, right? And they have all the right things like NFT vaults that enable gas assigning transactions. I feel like, you know, visor can really catch the hype, I guess.
00:11:26.830 - 00:12:06.300, Speaker A: I believe that both projects are likely to be hyped up pre unisol V three. I know there are other protocols like mist and method, but you know, I, in my research I couldn't really find that much detail on them. So I only focused on the Xdkvisor and lixer, which is kind of in stealth. And how I'm trading this in the short term is to buy the rumor, sell the news. Because like I feel like smart money accumulates protocols before the hype and dumb money buys the hype and smart money dumps to the retail. Like smart money dumps to the dumb money, like when things are really getting overheated and really hyped. Right.
00:12:06.300 - 00:12:54.156, Speaker A: Before I conclude the video, I want to give a shout out to Noah Seedman or sideman. And as you can see, I watch all his videos and he really shares really, really good alpha. And I wanted to give him a shout out because he pointed out these tokens in his streams. He's involved in XDK, Visor and I believe method and myst. I think, I think he's involved in all four and he really understands the concept of risk adjusted returns. He has a lot of capital that he's working with and he's really shares like the alpha, right? If you want real Alpha, I would like really encourage you listen to him. I try to share my type of alpha on this channel, but, you know, I think it's always good to follow a bunch of people with different mindsets because he's more focused on being risk averse and generating income through staking and liquidity providing.
00:12:54.156 - 00:13:22.110, Speaker A: So anyways, if you like the content, please like and subscribe. Let me know what your thoughts are on how I'm playing this. In the short term, it could just be a protocol that might like 100 x from here and like, I just only get like a five x. But you know, it's good to stick to your thesis. It's good to have a plan and stick to it because you don't want to be, you don't want to be left holding the bag. So yeah, if you like the content, please like and subscribe and leave a comment in the comment section below. And have a nice day.
