00:00:00.440 - 00:00:24.598, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Wave refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, anthony Cisano, and today's the 4 August 2021. Right, everyone? It is the day, less than 24 hours until EIP 1559 goes live on the ethereum mainnet. It is finally here. It's amazing. I mean, I have talked about it endlessly. You have heard about it endlessly, and we are so, so close to going live here.
00:00:24.598 - 00:00:53.870, Speaker A: Now, tomorrow's refill will be recorded before 1559 goes live because I have the live stream with bankless, uh, at the usual time that I record the refuel. So definitely go check out that live stream. It's on bankless YouTube channel. We're doing that as part of, like an ethub bankless stream there. Uh, but I mean, why else can I say, really? I mean, I've, as I said, I've talked about 1559 enough at this point. You all know what it is. I think that at this point, everyone's just like, oh, my God, okay, like, let's just get this thing live so everyone shuts up about it.
00:00:53.870 - 00:01:27.160, Speaker A: And I totally get that. But I will warn you, people aren't going to shut up about it because now people are going to start posting about how much ETH is getting burned. And you can see here the ultrasound money site has been updated with a burn leaderboard, or will be updated with a burn leaderboard once 1559 goes live. And you'll be able to see, like, how much each kind of app, how much ETH each. Each app is burning based on, like 24 hours, seven days, 30 days, or like, all time here. Now, as you can see, uniswap v two as at the top. Then Opensea, axie Infinity, tether us uniswap, you know, keep going to list their metamask, stuff like that.
00:01:27.160 - 00:02:07.274, Speaker A: This kind of, kind of changes from time to time, like the rankings and everything. Here, Uniswap is usually at the top, but obviously opensea and axie Infinity, during this kind of NFt mania, you know, are giving unity up a run for its money. And I hope that they integrate, like, a USD burn as well to just see how much value in USD. Cause I'd be using this, like, every time there's a large fee day. It'd be really cool to show this and be like, look how much ETH we just burned sort of thing. So, yeah, I mean, there's that going on. But I'm also curious to see, like, how much of the kind of like existing wallets and apps that we have work really well with 1559 because they did need to be updated and I think some of them have already been updated to support 1559.
00:02:07.274 - 00:02:44.322, Speaker A: And that doesn't mean that you won't be able to do transactions once kind of London goes live and everything like that. But it does mean that unless your wallet supports it, you'll be doing a kind of legacy transactions, which means that you, the AV is still going to be burned, but you might end up overpaying. So it basically means you won't get the refund portion of a 1559 transaction. So you might end up overpaying, which is basically the same as what happens now. Um, but essentially, uh, if the wallet does support 1559 style transactions, then that won't happen. You'll get that kind of like refund there. And, uh, you know, I'm, I'm hoping most wallets will have the support for this by the time this goes live, um, if not like shortly after it.
00:02:44.322 - 00:03:09.978, Speaker A: So obviously super exciting next 24 hours to look forward to. And yeah, as I said, the refuel will go, I'll record it before, uh, 1559 goes live and it'll go out after 1559 goes live. Uh, so you'll see that. And then on Friday's refuel, I'll talk about 1559, how it all went and everything like that. So, yeah, super, super exciting to see that all playing out. It's, it's been a journey and we're finally here. I mean, I can't wait to say this for the merge.
00:03:09.978 - 00:03:56.882, Speaker A: Like, the next big event is the merge after 1559. So I really can't wait to be like, guys, we're almost 24, like 24 hours away from the merge. Getting rid of proof of work forever and dropping your issuance 90% and getting on proof of stake. It's just going to be really awesome. So, yeah, lots, lots and lots to look forward to there. All right, so dy DX announced their governance token yesterday and now, I mean, it's no real, it's not really generally, generally like big news when a defi app introduces a token, like, everyone assumes that they are going to introduce a token at one point, and I've told you guys like plenty of times at this point, assume that everything has going to have a token, so use it. And if you had used the idea, actually would have gotten an airdrop of tokens, which the way they've done it is you actually have to use the IDX to claim that airdrop.
00:03:56.882 - 00:04:52.118, Speaker A: So you have to kind of do some minimum amount of trading to get the airdrop on their L2 exchange, which I think is pretty cool because it basically, I guess, forces users to obviously use the app, but also kind of like get used to it and see if they actually get value out of it and if they want to continue using it. So I think it's kind of a little kind of growth hack strategy there. But the one thing that kind of, like, stirred drama up on Twitter, and I wrote about this in the Deli Gwen newsletter today, was basically that DoidX has barred us investors, or at least us people, from accessing this airdrop. And they did this by matching ips to kind of like addresses that interacted with the protocol, and they basically blacklisted them from getting the airdrop. Now, this is obviously due to certain regulations in the United States, especially around securities laws and the SEC and stuff like that. And I put out a tweet today basically saying, you know, us investors missing out on an airdrop because of stupid regulations is just insane. But it's okay.
00:04:52.118 - 00:05:37.134, Speaker A: They're just trying to protect you from free money. Back to wage cooking now, citizen. Now, I ranted and raved about this in the newsletter today, and I'm going to rant and rave a bit, a bit about it on this. Essentially, I believe most financial regulations are total bullshit and only exist to protect the incumbents. And what I mean by that is that they only exist to protect entities like banks, you know, casinos, lottery operators, stuff like that when it comes to financial regulations. Because at the end of the day, like, DeFi is looking to disrupt a lot of this stuff. And DeFi gives power back to the people, right? And it gives power back to investors to be able to kind of like capture early stage investments without having to go through accredited investor laws, which I'll touch on in a SEC because that's another kind of bullshit regulation.
00:05:37.134 - 00:06:10.232, Speaker A: And the fact that, like, now investors are missing out on airdrops because they're based in the, in the US because of these regulations is absolutely insane to me. Like in, in what world is protecting people from getting free money the mandate of, like, the SEC or the mandate of these regulators? Like it does? It's not. But the problem is, is that these regulations are so draconian and they're so, I guess, like, difficult to maneuver around that projects and teams literally just give up and say, well, screw it, we're not going to operate in the US. This is too hard. We're not going to take the risk. Sorry, everyone. We can't do that.
00:06:10.232 - 00:06:47.330, Speaker A: And you've seen this play out with even centralized exchanges and things like that. They obviously don't want to play in the US because of all the really tough regulations. And a lot of these politicians, they'll always kind of ponder, talk about, sorry, you know, these things protecting investors and stuff like that, but it's all total bullshit. Like maybe they believe it in some twisted way, but I don't, like, I would have to look through like the history of these sorts of things. But in no world do I think that, you know, barring users from being able to get an airdrop or use certain apps is protecting them. Because at the end of the day, Coinbase listed Shib, like as an example here. Coinbase listed a stupid dog token.
00:06:47.330 - 00:07:18.424, Speaker A: Like, I know some people are fans of this project and after the token pump they said, oh, we're going to do, you know, we're going to make some products or whatever. But really, I mean it was just a fork dog token that has fallen massively from its highs. And they listed that in, and us investors can get access to that. So I just, I don't get it. Like, I just don't get how you can argue that these, that these regulations are protecting investors while also allowing the centralized exchanges to basically list these things. Now maybe this comes back and kind of like bites Coinbase in the ass later on for listing something like this. I don't think so.
00:07:18.424 - 00:07:49.850, Speaker A: They would have the best kind of like tap into the regulatory landscape for crypto in the US. They obviously have like the best lawyers working for them and stuff like that. But. Yeah, and that brings me to my second major point here, which is around accredited investor laws, which I think are literally the most damaging financial regulations and the most unfair financial regulations in history. Or at least one, one of, I don't know all of the regulations in history. I'm sure there were probably worse ones that quickly got retracted. But these accredited investor laws have been around for a while now.
00:07:49.850 - 00:08:46.858, Speaker A: And for those of you who don't know what they are essentially, and this exists in the US and some other parts of the world as well, I think most of first world countries have similar laws. But the way it works in the US is that to be an accredited investor, you have to either have a net worth of a million dollars individually or jointly with a spouse, or you have to have an income for the last two years of $250,000 or more, you know, individually, or $300,000 or more with, with a spouse. And if you don't have that you are not an accredited investor, which means you are not allowed to invest in early stage companies. You are not allowed to invest in seed rounds or Series A or Series B or whatever. The only time that you're allowed to invest in these companies is when they go to the stock market, when, when they're actually IPO'd and it's on the stock market and you can buy into it. Now, I'm going to take the very cynical approach here, but I truly believe this, that these laws only exist to protect the rich. Because when you think about it, the rich people want to get in as early as possible and they want to keep accumulating wealth.
00:08:46.858 - 00:09:39.782, Speaker A: And how do you do that? Well, you have to, you have to get in as early as possible, but then you also need people to buy it off you later on. Right. So essentially what happens is that if you close the pool of people that can access these early stage investments and then basically force the majority of the population to be only able to buy them when they go live on the stock market, when it's IPO'd, then essentially you have like a moderately kind of like risk free return on this sort of stuff and you have like a massive return. The only reason why returns in crypto seem so insane to, to us is because of the fact that traditionally people have not had access to these returns. If you look at all the biggest companies in the world today, and if you had invested in them at their, like, earliest stages, if you were allowed to do that, you would have made 1000 x 2000 x 3000 x whatever on it. Right. This isn't just exclusive to crypto, but because you haven't had access to that, you haven't even seen that before.
00:09:39.782 - 00:10:07.126, Speaker A: Like there, it's, it's not public, it's not transparent. It's always kind of like hush hush hidden unless you dig around for the valuations. You know, it's not really talked about too much or it's talked about in an abstract way where they're just like, you know, this investor is legendary because they made this much money off Facebook. Well, I mean, yeah, because they were allowed to invest in Facebook, like, you and I weren't allowed to. I mean, maybe not me these days, but like, back, you know, when I, when it. Before I became, before I was eligible to be an accredited investor, like, I thought it was total crap. And I mean, I still think it's total crap.
00:10:07.126 - 00:10:42.606, Speaker A: It's really unfair that just because, like, I have a certain amount of wealth, I'm allowed to invest in something, but someone else isn't. I can tell you right now that there are people more passionate about the, some of the projects I've invested in than I am. They probably know more about it than I do. But because I have the, the kind of like the wealth requirement, I'm allowed to invest in it and they aren't. So from that perspective, I just think it's total, total crap. Like it's just the one of the worst financial regulations to exist. And there has been some change here recently where they've been doing kind of like instead of wealth tests, like knowledge tests and things like that, which I guess is a step in the right direction.
00:10:42.606 - 00:11:17.902, Speaker A: But I still think it's kind of crap because it's like, okay, you know, testing someone based on their wealth is actually much harder than, sorry, on their knowledge is much, is basically much harder than testing them on their wealth. Because with wealth, you can just, you know, stick a number on it, say, you know, if you have a net worth of a million dollars, then you know, you're good to go. But with a knowledge test, you basically have to have to standardize this. You have to basically say, okay, well, this test is going to be the same one that everyone takes and you have to get like a 70% to be passed to have a passing grade, and then they're going to update the test maybe every year. And then, you know, there's all sorts of things that can go wrong with it and it's very loose. Right. It's not like a tightly defined thing.
00:11:17.902 - 00:12:06.668, Speaker A: So from that perspective, I think that, uh, it's really the best kind of like option is like a middle ground here where I don't think a middle ground has to involve like a wealth requirement. I don't think it should. But like a knowledge test is fine, but also the fact that generally kind of like these laws maybe shouldn't exist at all. Maybe they should be changed completely where it's essentially, okay, well, you know, if you can prove that you're knowledgeable, if you can like sign this thing saying that you're, you know, you're happy taking on the risk, just like you would sign like for a home loan or whatever, that you're happy taking on the risk and, and stuff like that, then, then you can invest in it. But if I had my way, I would say get rid of these regulations altogether and let people do what they want with their money. Because, and this is the flip side to it in the US, right? You can't invest in early stage companies unless you're rich. But you can do everything else.
00:12:06.668 - 00:12:34.934, Speaker A: You can get a credit card and max it out. You can get multiple credit cards, max them out as much as you want. You can take on enormous amounts of debt. You can get a home loan that you can't service. Right? You can, you can weasel your way into that. You can go and blow all your money at the casino or go on lotteries. There's even been people in Congress encouraging people to, instead of investing in crypto, they should be putting their money into lotteries and basically investing in the lottery because that's taxed and the tax goes to the state and you're helping out your state.
00:12:34.934 - 00:13:13.062, Speaker A: What? What? Like, that's just insane. Like, and you know, the people that say this are obviously bought and paid for by these institutions, by these incumbents to say these things. And that's not a conspiracy to say this. Like, you can see their donors, you can see where the money's flowing, you can see who they actually answer to. Um, so, yeah, I mean, I'm not going to dive into like the politics of it, but genuinely, I just, I've become so frustrated over the years, especially being in crypto. And this is why, one reason why I'm so bullish on crypto is because it really does level the playing field for a lot of people. You know, think about all the VC's and funds that have missed out on like some of the biggest investments in crypto.
00:13:13.062 - 00:13:33.354, Speaker A: They all missed out on ETH, right? They all definitely missed out on BTC recently. They've missed out on things like Axie Infinity. There are only a few funds in there. Most funds weren't in there. Most VC's weren't in there. And the returns, I mean you could have bought Axie Infinity the token for like twenty cents a while ago. And you know, it's like whatever it is, 40, $45 today and only just a few short months.
00:13:33.354 - 00:14:11.570, Speaker A: And you know, there's countless examples of this where, you know, you can basically get in and because it's actively trading, it's on the public markets and you're responsible for your own actions, you're responsible for the risk you take on if you lose money, if you make money, all that sort of stuff. And I haven't really seen anyone complain that they learn their lesson. They're like, okay, well, you know, it was my fault that I aped into this thing. I lost money, whatever, moving on. So I think that's the way to play it. Everyone should be responsible for their own actions. But I know that a lot of the time, especially when a lot of people get hurt, they go running to daddy government and they're saying, hey, you know, help us, protect us, when they really don't know what they're asking for.
00:14:11.570 - 00:14:30.826, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, most of these regulations don't even work to stop the scammers. And the SEC doesn't even go after most of the scammers. Like, think about the amount of scammers that have gotten away with it. The rug pulls the hacks that they say is a hack, but really is an inside job. The pump and dumps the ponzis. Most of them, like, 99% of them have gotten away with it. It's only the 1% that gets caught.
00:14:30.826 - 00:15:07.320, Speaker A: So are these regulations even doing anything to begin with? Like, are they even preventing investors from getting hurt? Even if you believe that these things have been invented as protections for investors, then, you know, they haven't been protecting anyone because we've seen this all play out within the crypto space and even in the traditional finance space. So, yeah, just, I'm going to end the rant there. But seriously, like, I just, I find it so insane that these regulations exist. And really, the only logical reason that I can think of is that they exist because of the fact that they are there for the incumbents. Essentially, they're there to protect the incumbent interests. And that's it. And that makes sense to me.
00:15:07.320 - 00:15:33.680, Speaker A: And that's, that's the most logical reason in my mind. But anyway, gonna leave it at that. I'm sure a lot of you agree with me on this. You probably feel the same frustrations I do. And believe me, I feel like the frustrations, like, super deeply for, for those of you who don't qualify to be an accredited investor, which means you don't get to invest in early stage companies. That was my situation for a long time where I had, you know, people coming to me and I was like, crap, I can't because I'm not an accredited investor. And, you know, as soon as I crossed that threshold, I was, like, super happy.
00:15:33.680 - 00:16:00.120, Speaker A: But then I was reminded about the fact that, wow, like, just because my net worth went up, I'm now all of a sudden magically allowed to invest in these early stage companies. Like, my knowledge level didn't really change. Like, nothing else really changed except a number on a screen. So, yeah. Anyway, end of rant onto some project updates here. So hash Flow Network announced that they have launched their open alpha version. Essentially, there's no access codes, and this gives you the best decentralized trading experience on Ethereum.
00:16:00.120 - 00:16:45.978, Speaker A: So what hash flow is, from my understanding, is essentially a way for people to kind of like, trade, I guess, like in size, basically, instead of going through. I mean, there's been multiple projects kind of like, essentially trying to do this where you can, like, trade in size. But I think what hash flow is trying to do is basically make it, like, make the spreads really, really tight so that there's no, like, there's not much price impact. When people are trading in this size, they want to make sure they can ensure, you know, very, very low slippage or zero slippage. And they also claim here, like, mev resistance and stuff like that. I haven't dug into how they do that, but, like, I'm going to. I only saw this just before, so I just wanted to quickly give it a shout out on the refuel as you can go check this out for yourself to kind of learn more about it.
00:16:45.978 - 00:17:22.298, Speaker A: But essentially, I just think that, you know, these kind of things are really cool because I think, you know, one of the reasons why something like Defi has maybe not gotten. I think it's like two major reasons why Defi hasn't gotten, like, the big whales from exchanges to come play in it just yet. Scalability. Because these whales love to play with order books, exchanges. And also the fact that, like, there's more liquidity on centralized exchanges. But that gap is closing and projects like hash flow are working to kind of close that gap and allowing these kind of bigger players to come into, I guess, like the ecosystem and experience defi and everything like that. So really, really cool to see that.
00:17:22.298 - 00:18:08.258, Speaker A: Anyway, this will be linked in the YouTube description and you can go check it out for yourself. So diversify and Polygon have teamed up to launch this bridge. So what this bridge allows people to do is bridge from the diversify layer to exchange to directly to Polygon. So as diversify explains here, what can you transfer between the two platforms? Well, you can now instantly transfer USDC, DAi and USDC from Polygon to your diversify wallet on the Polygon network here. So how quickly will funds transfer? Within minutes of sending funds, they'll be available on the exchange, and withdrawals back to polygon occur even faster. And now. And diversify, says here, the best part is that to help with the cross chain fees, the bridge will initially be gas free.
00:18:08.258 - 00:18:46.794, Speaker A: So you basically have fast and free transfers on that bridge right now. So this is really cool. I mean, this is just another bridge. I've been talking about bridges, like, so much lately, but this is just another bridge that is coming to the ecosystem to enable kind of like the, the, the. I mean, I've lost the word here, but essentially, to fix the problem of fragmented liquidity, fragmented platforms like this is obviously coming from the polygon Pos chain to the diversify kind of L2 chain, which I think is really, really cool because it's like, it's like a hybrid approach here. And, you know, this is just like the beginning. I'm sure they're going to enable other tokens to, to bridge across these chains and things like that, and I'm sure they're going to add other chains, too.
00:18:46.794 - 00:19:34.466, Speaker A: And, you know, I think at the end of the day, I mean, I've talked about this a lot, right? Like the bridges, they, they're going to start out like, you know, limited and slow and not slow, limited and, like, you know, low liquidity and only supporting a few different kind of, like, chains and things like that. But over time, we're going to see which chains gain the most kind of traction. And then I think we're going to see, like, a bunch of these bridges, like coalesce or at least hone in on the chains that are actually seeing traction and focus a lot of the liquidity there. And that's, that's just going to reinforce the network effects for those, those L2s and those side chains. Because if you're a user and you go to a new side chain or a new L2 and they don't have a bridge to everywhere else, well, then, you know, you're not really gonna get much use out of it. Cause that's what you're gonna expect eventually. You're gonna expect bridges in and out of these things out.
00:19:34.466 - 00:20:00.394, Speaker A: So, and bridges that are quick as well. You don't want to obviously, put up with the seven day withdrawal delay for the optimistic roll ups. You don't want to have to put up with any kind of deposit or withdrawal delays with any kind of roll ups. Generally, I guess so. Users are going to expect these bridges to exist on all the chains. They're not going to exist on every chain, and not all of them are going to have the liquidity to match on every chain. It's going to be a little bit hard there, but I think that the ones that they do exist on, those people are going to use those the most.
00:20:00.394 - 00:20:55.292, Speaker A: So the obvious ones being, you know, polygon, optimism, arbitrum, the standalone chains that are built on starkware and even Starkware and Zksyncs, when they release it, they're kind of like EVM compatible chains as well. So I think those ones are definitely guaranteed to have all these bridges coming in and out. You know, we still have connects and hot protocol and seller network. And I mean, it's amazing how many bridges, bridge protocols we have now. And they're all kind of like, you know, competing with each other, which is awesome, because the more competition, the better it is for us as end users. So I'm really looking forward to just watching the bridge kind of like, ecosystem play out and to see if we can basically get rid of like the biggest pain points for users, which is that kind of like getting liquidity from layer one to L2, from L2 to L2, or L2 to sidechain, or basically everywhere. Because my vision of Ethereum has always been that you have Ethereum sitting in the middle, like, so it's a nexus in the middle, and then you have all of these things kind of like coming off of Ethereum, but then they all talk to each other as well.
00:20:55.292 - 00:21:32.540, Speaker A: So you have lines going everywhere, essentially. So it's not just a, you know, you have, you have to go from like, say, this star to Ethereum, the nexus in the middle through one straight line, and then you can go to another kind of like, stuff. You can go start a star, or you can go, you know, the one next to you, or you can go start to other star, or you can go, like, star to Ethereum to star in like one transaction. So all these kinds of things can happen. So I'm really looking forward to seeing how that all plays out with the bridge ecosystem. So sense Finance has announced their fundraise, and what they're building is a decentralized fixed income protocol on Ethereum. This is a $5.2
00:21:32.540 - 00:21:47.504, Speaker A: million raise led by, I think, variant ventures here. Led the. Led the raise, from what I can see here. No, led by dragonfly. Sorry. With participation from Bane, capital Ventures, nascent variant robot ventures, the Lao, among others. A bunch of angels here as well.
00:21:47.504 - 00:22:11.258, Speaker A: But essentially, this is, I believe, a competitor to. What's the thing? Element finance, the other protocol that I've been talking about, the fixed kind of interest rate protocols. And I think there's other ones out there today, not just sense finance and element. Element finance. But I can't remember the names right now. Um, I think there's yield, yield protocol as well. But, yeah, I mean, this is just more competition.
00:22:11.258 - 00:22:51.574, Speaker A: And what this essentially does is kind of like a similar thing where it splits, like the yield and the principal up, and people can kind of like, play around with that and, like, buy and sell that and trade that. And you have, like, interest rates, interest rate swaps and stuff like that as well, which I think is really, really cool. So, I mean, basically $5.2 million is, I think this is a seed, seed round, not a series a round. That's a pretty big seed round. But, you know, it's going to give them capital to last a while. I mean, given the investors and given kind of, like, the attention on this space and the fact that I guess, like, fixed income is a huge product in traditional finance, I wouldn't be surprised to see, since finance raising a series a, you know, sooner rather than later.
00:22:51.574 - 00:23:27.304, Speaker A: But I'm pretty cool. I'm pretty excited to see that there's just more kind of competition in this space. And they detailed, you know, what, what sense is and a little bit of background about it in this blog post. But you can go check out yourself. I'm not sure exactly when this is going to be available on mainnet or anything like that, but you can definitely follow them on Twitter and join the Discord channel to get more involved with the project, if you would like to. So last up here, Alchemyx has announced that their al ETH debt cap has been raised from two k to three k al ETH. Now, I don't think this debt cap is filled just yet, so you can go mint some al ETH if you want to.
00:23:27.304 - 00:23:43.530, Speaker A: This came off the heels of, I guess, like, the exploit that was found originally in the alchemix system for Al Ethan. They kind of, like, paused it and then brought it back. The product. Sorry. And it was at two k cap. And now, you know, they've raised it to three k. I'm sure that's going to get filled sooner rather than later.
00:23:43.530 - 00:24:05.158, Speaker A: And then they're just going to keep raising that cap from there. I believe so, yeah. I mean, if you haven't checked this out, you haven't kind of minted some al ETH, now would be the time to do so. But, like, that was the last time I checked. It may be, it may have been, like, reached the minting kind of, like, limit already or the debt cap, I should say already. But, yeah. Good to see alchemy still building here and still kind of like, you know, progressing along.
00:24:05.158 - 00:24:44.340, Speaker A: They're actually, they've actually been teasing a bunch of other things as well, at least Scooby triples has. I've been seeing some tweets from them about, like, the next versions of kind of, like, alchemyx and then the bigger products coming to alchemics. And it's just really kind of cool to see that they're, you know, just prodding away there. Because whenever an exploit happens with one of these Defra protocols, you know, it's always really shitty. And depending on the protocol, you get different reactions. Like, if it's a protocol that not many people like, or they think is like, kind of shitty, they'll like, you know, I guess, insult it or like bag it out or kind of like shit on it, for lack of a better term. But when it's like, when it's like a fan favorite or community favorite, they come together and they're like, you know, yeah, that's okay.
00:24:44.340 - 00:25:07.442, Speaker A: These things happen. You know, we're right behind you. We know that you're legit. We know that you're going to fix this. And Alchemyx did fix it, right? They basically allowed people to pay back the ETH that they, that they got for free, essentially. And a lot of people did pay it back, and then they covered the rest out of their own kind of, I guess, like Dow Treasury, I believe, or from the fees generated by the, by the protocol and things like that. So that was really cool to see as well.
00:25:07.442 - 00:25:38.880, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, you know, speaking of exploits, there's been a few exploits lately that I've been seeing, and there's also been a lot of wallet hacks that I've been seeing on Twitter lately. People getting their, their metamask drained. Now. I just wanted to give a quick reminder to, to the refuel listeners and watches here. If you don't use a hardware wallet as your main device for storing your crypto, go and do that right now. I mean, there's a certain threshold where a hardware wallet doesn't make sense. Like, obviously a ledger nano s is like, I think it's kind of the price.
00:25:38.880 - 00:26:01.792, Speaker A: Maybe it's $100. Let's just say it's dollar 100. The lattice one is a bit more than that. And you know, there's other alternatives out there as well. But essentially, if you're not using a hardware wallet, your funds are at risk. And even if you are using a hardware wallet, your funds are still at risk, but much less so. Because what can end up happening with metamask, for example, is that someone can install some malicious software on your pc through any means.
00:26:01.792 - 00:26:47.474, Speaker A: I mean, this has been happening for a long time, not just with crypto, but just generally install some malware on your pc. You won't even know that it's there, they could just simply log your keys. And then what ends up happening is that they can either log your password for metamask if they want to kind of, like, log into it using another exploit later on, or what they do, which is even kind of, like, more nefarious, is they'll basically reset your metamask so that you basically have to, or at least, you know, mess with your metamask. So you have to re enter your seed phrase. And a lot of people fall for this, where they enter their seed phrase, and it works because it's their seed phrase, but then that gets key logged and sent to that, to the hackers, and then they use that to drain your entire wallet, and you don't even know before it's too late. So it's really scary. You know, it's really scary.
00:26:47.474 - 00:27:11.322, Speaker A: And sometimes they can be lurking in your pc for. For a long time before they do so because maybe they're waiting for your funds in your metamask accounts to kind of stack up before they, they kind of, like, steal them from you. And, yeah, I've just been seeing, like, an increase in this lately. So be vigilant. Get a hardware wallet. As, like, the most basic, necessary step is a hardware wallet. There's plenty of other steps that you need to take to protect yourself if you want to go the extra mile, and there's guides out there on how to do so.
00:27:11.322 - 00:27:47.988, Speaker A: My crypto has a bunch of guides you can search, like my crypto security guide on Google, and that'll come up. But essentially, you know, other things you can do is, like, revoking permissions to smart contracts. Etherscan has a tool for this. Basically, any smart contracts that you don't interact with anymore, you should revoke the token permissions for them and especially all the untrustworthy ones and stuff like that, you should definitely install some sort of, like, antivirus on your computer. I mean, Windows Defender is really good. That's a free anti antivirus, anti malware system from Windows themselves. So you don't have to go buy one of, like, the McAfee's or the Nortons of the world, but you definitely want to have, like, the bare minimum windows defender.
00:27:47.988 - 00:28:25.172, Speaker A: You want to have, like, the firewall on. You want to make sure that people that are on your wireless network, you know, are known and trusted and things like that. I mean, there's, there's, you can go deep with this sort of stuff, and I have a background in cybersecurity, so I know how deep it goes. But, like, as I said the most bare minimum thing you can do is get a hardware wallet, and that'll protect you from a lot of these different kind of attacks. And, but the biggest kind of like attack vector with a hardware wallet is again, a seed phrase thing where you, you know, you've written your seed phrase down. Maybe you've written it down on your computer because you, for some reason, didn't have a pen and paper around, and you said, oh, well, I'll just write it down on my computer in like a text file. And then the hacker gets access to that text file.
00:28:25.172 - 00:28:54.938, Speaker A: They have access to everything. And how, how? Well, it doesn't matter at that point. Or you sign a transaction that, that a, that an attacker has kind of like put into your hardware wallet. So say you, you've gone to like send ETH to an address or something and, you know, that transaction goes through and then, you know, what the attacker does is they basically replace that transaction with their own one. And then you sign that and then it sends the ETH to their address instead of yours. And that's why ledger doesn't go far enough. They don't do, they don't show you, like, all the details of your transaction.
00:28:54.938 - 00:29:17.804, Speaker A: So if you actually want to see what the details are before you sign it, you have to get something like a lattice one, which I highly recommend. It is a bit more expensive because it's a bigger device and has a lot more going on, but it is probably, I would say, the best device you can have to protect yourself against these sorts of things and to keep your crypto safe and secure. So. Yeah, definitely check that out. If you haven't yet, you can google it. Lattice one from grid. I highly recommend it.
00:29:17.804 - 00:29:30.136, Speaker A: I'm not paid to say that. I just, you know, highly recommend it because I've got one and it works really well, works as advertised. So. Yeah. But on that note, that's it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:29:30.136 - 00:29:35.504, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
