00:00:00.640 - 00:00:11.154, Speaker A: Institute who will talk about isometric dilations models and refined von Neumann inequality for a class of tuples in the poly disc. Welcome.
00:00:12.774 - 00:01:21.578, Speaker B: Thank you Elavinda for the introduction and also thank you organizers for giving me the opportunity to speak here. So I will be talking on isometric dilation models and refine one name and inequality for a class of Tafos in the politics and this is a joint work with Professor Vicky Das, Professor Joydesh Falkar and Kolpesh Harya. Let me tell you why dilation is important in multivariable avoided theory. Basically, in many situations, dilation enables us to reduce problems of tuples of committing non normal avoiders to simpler problems involving tuples of committing normal avoidance in particular unitaries. One such problem is when an Interpol of committing contraction satisfies the one name and inequality. So what is von Neman inequality? We say an interval of commenting contraction t satisfies one name and inequality if operator norm of pt is dominated by the subnum of the polynomial p over the unit politics. And this happens for all polynomial in n variables.
00:01:21.578 - 00:02:19.248, Speaker B: So question is when an entuplo committing contact and satisfies one name and inequality. And this question can be answered partially through isometric dilation. It has been seen that if a tuple of committing contractions has an isometric dilation or a unitized dilation, then it satisfies the von Neumann inequality. So what is dilation? Let's say Hba Hilbert's face and t acting on the Hilbert's face h be a contraction that means norm of t lesser equals to one and operator v acting on another. Universe k, where k contains the universe, h is called a dilation of t. If t power k is the compression of v power k for all non negative integer k, and compression means it is the composition of projection and the operator and the restriction. So whenever we have this kind of relation, Vk has the following matrix form.
00:02:19.248 - 00:03:02.484, Speaker B: Vk can be written as this component it is tk and here it is something we don't care about. And this holds for all non negative integer k. So what does this expression tells us? This representation tells us that we can have t as a part of v. Not only that, we can have t power k as a part of t power k for all non negative integer k. And whenever we have this kind of representation, we say v is a dilation of t and sometimes we call this dilation as a power dilation. When v is an isometry, then we say v is an isometric dilation of T and when v is a unitary. Then we say v is unit dilation of T.
00:03:02.484 - 00:03:46.268, Speaker B: What are the examples of dilations? So extensions are dilation. Let's say vba vbn extension of T. Then one can check v has this matrix form, this component it is t and here it is zero and here it is, here something. Now taking power in both sides we have v power k equals t power k and still this component will be zero. And here is something so and this happens for all non negative integer k and this representation immediately tells us that v is a dilation of T. Similarly, coextensions are also dilations and sometimes we call co extensions as lifting. So what is coextension? V is said to be a co extension of T.
00:03:46.268 - 00:04:45.988, Speaker B: If star is an extension of p star, then p star is this matrix form. Here it is t star and here it is zero and then taking adjoint in both sides we have phi is t zero star star and then taking powers we have v power k equals t power k. Here it is zero and here is something and this representation tells us that v is also a dilation. So extension and co extensions are dilation. Now here is the definition of dilation in multivariable setup for that first we define t and h for a Hilbert space h. Tnh is the set of all n tuple of committing contractions. That means it is the set of all n tuple t one t two t n where each tis are contraction and they commute with other and for an interpol of commuting contraction t which is t one t to t and for n multi index k lies in the semi group of all non negative integers semi group semi group of all n tuples of non negative integers.
00:04:45.988 - 00:05:55.106, Speaker B: T power k is defined in this way. T power k is the composition of t one power k one up to t n power kn and with this definition we define the dilation in multivariable setup here, an interpol of commuting contraction v acting on some Hilbert space k is called a dilation of Interpol of committing contraction T. If, as previous, t power k is the compression of v power k, but here k is the multi index and t power k and v power k is defined in this way. When v is an interpol of isometries here, then this an isometric dilation of T and if v is an interval of unitaries, then v is a unitary dilation of T. Here also extensions and co extensions are dilation and extension means it is extension component wise and co extension means vista is an extension of t star. Now question is when an entropy committing contraction has an isometric dilation. In 1953, Nas shows that a contraction on a Hilbert space always has an isometric dilation.
00:05:55.106 - 00:07:04.194, Speaker B: That means if you consider a single contraction on a Hilbert space age, it has an isometric dilation and due to undo every pair of committing contractions, t one, t two has an isometric dilation. But we cannot generalize these results for multivariable because there are counter example of parrot which shows that for n theta equals to three, an interpol of committing contractions does not possess an isometric dilation in general. Now look at the corresponding one m and inequality. So recall what is one name and inequality in an interpol of commenting context and t satisfies one name and inequality if appointed normal pt is dominated by the supernoun of the polynomial p over the unit for a disk. And this happens for all polynomial in n variables. In 1951, one name one proved this inequality for single contraction. Later, it immediately follows from the isometric dilation of NASA and due to the isometric dilation result of undo as every pair of committing contraction satisfy, every pair of committing contraction has an isometric relation, then the pair satisfies von Neumann inequality also.
00:07:04.194 - 00:08:14.470, Speaker B: And due to her pulas, von Neumann inequality does not hold in general for n g 23 and it has been seen that, and I have already mentioned that one Neman inequality is an immediate consequence of having isometric dilation. That means if a tuple of committing contraction has an isometric diagram, it satisfies the fundamental inequality. So we have three things. Isometric dilation does not fold for n g in general, von Neumann inequality does not fold for n get equals to three in general, and von Neumann inequality is an immediate consequence of having isometric dilation. So this leads us to investigate isometric dilation and von Neumann inequality for a for a class of tuples of committing contractions under certain positive positivity assumption. And the positivity assumption we consider is known as Jacob positivity. So? So before going into Jacob positivity and before going into our class, we need to recall the definitions of hard space and the multiplication of water, etcetera, so that the hard space and and the multiplication operator.
00:08:14.470 - 00:10:12.560, Speaker B: And some results already have been introduced by some previous speakers. So I'm just recalling here for unit disks, hard disputes over unit disks, denoted by h 2d, is the set of all analytic functions on unit dig such that coefficients are square sinew and whenever we are talking about analytic function, it has a power series representation. So, so this is nothing but the set of all convergent power series on unit disks such that coefficients are square sine. Now, generalizing this notion for a Hilbert space e, the evaluate header space over the unit polydicks which is denoted by h two edn as the set of all convergent power series in n variables for the coefficients coming from the Hilbert space e such that the coefficients are square summable. And it is an well known fact is that hot spaces are reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces. So it has a kernel function and the kernel function of this hard space h two edn is sn times identity of e, where sn is the z co kernel on the unit polydex defined in this way, sn z is product of I minus zi wi bar inverse and taking inverse of this kernel, we have a polynomial product of I minus z I w I bar. And in that polynomial replacing zi by ti and w I bar by ti star, we have this expression for a tuple t one t to tn and this expression is a finite sum and the sum varies over all subset f of the set one to n, and where tf is defined in this way for a subset f of one to n t f is the composition of these operators t of a one t of n one up to t of n k, and this expression turns into a operator.
00:10:12.560 - 00:10:55.514, Speaker B: And whenever this operator is positive, we say t satisfies zero positivity and we denote this expression as sn inverse tt. Now let us look at how this expression look like in simpler cases. For n equals to two. That means we are considering a pair of committing contractions t one and t two. For t one and t two s two inverse t t star is nothing but this expression. So for empty set phi we have identity. For singleton one we have t one t one star, and for singleton two we have t two, t two star, and the full set one and two we have uh, this quantity t one t two t one star t two star.
00:10:55.514 - 00:11:50.226, Speaker B: And whenever this expression is positive for this pair, we say this pair satisfies zero positivity. Uh, now multiplication multipliers and the multiplication operator defined in the similar way as as one dimension. Here is the definition of multiplier. A function is called a multiplier if p of a belongs to the a function is a function p on the unit quality is called a multiplier. From the address space h two e one DNA into h two e to dn. If he of f lies in the hard space h two e to dn and with respect to a multiple, one can define multiplication operator in the similar way, and one can talk about their norm equality, that means subdom of the multiplier is equals to the operator norm of the multiplication operator m three. And here also an a multiplier, phi is called the inner function.
00:11:50.226 - 00:13:03.802, Speaker B: If the radial limit of the multiplier is isometry almost everywhere in the distinguished boundary of dn, which is tn, that is the unit torus n dimensional torus. And useful fact is that phi is an inner function if and only m. Phi is an isometry and special type of multiplication operators are called sieves. And here we define shifts coordinate wise that that the multiplication operator with respect to the coordinate functions and in tuple of hadi shifts mz one mj two mz n on the hadis space h two dn is a commuting tuple of isometries and one can check that it satisfies Jacob positivity. Another fact is that multiplication operator the hardy shifts, always commutes with the multiplication operator with respect to some multiplier. And the converse is also true if an operator commits with the hardy shifts, that turns into a multiplication operator with respect to some multiplier. Now, now we define pure tuple, an entropy committing contraction t one t two t is pure if it is pure component wise.
00:13:03.802 - 00:14:23.224, Speaker B: That means for all I and for each h belongs to the Hilbert space age ti star m h norm of this thing tends to zero at m tends to infinity. So what are the examples of pure operator? Let's take a contraction t and let's take r lies in between zero to one. Then RT is always a pure fighter and also one can check shifts on the hard space is pure and hence the taful mj one mjp mz n tuple Hardy ships on the n dimensional hard space is a fuel tuffle. Now here is an useful and interesting result of interesting dilation result of puto and Vasirasu. According to them, if an entuplo commenting contraction t one t two tn behold and satisfies Jacob positivity, then this tuple can be directed to n tuple of hardy shifts on some hard space over unit politics. But the coefficient space of the hard space is script dt which is the defects operator with respect to the tuple t and which is which is defined by range closure of the j co expression sn inverse. And moreover this dilation is a co extension.
00:14:23.224 - 00:15:34.288, Speaker B: And since n tuple of hardy ships is a tuple of commuting isometries, this is an isometric dilation result. And also this theorem tells us that n tuple of hard shapes on some hard space form a model in the class of photo and fascinate. That means if we restrict, if we compress the ship n tuple of ships on some Cohenbaron subspace of some hard space, they have this property, they are pure and they satisfy the positivity. Now, generalizing the class of Koto and Vasila school, we define a class, namely we define our class, namely tau nvqh, and find explicit isometric dilation and fundamental inequality for our class. So before going into our class, we need to introduce some notation. So for an entaphle commanding contraction t one t to tn and for each I we denote ti hat as the n minus one tuple coming from the tuple t where ti is missing. And with this notation we define our class tau and pqh.
00:15:34.288 - 00:16:33.990, Speaker B: So for different p and q lies in between one and n, we define tau and Pqh as the set of all interpol of committing contractions such that Tp hat and tq hat satisfy z co positivity and tq has hat is pure. That means two different n minus one subtitle satisfies and one of them is pure. So obviously this is a generalized class of Pluto and Vasilascu. And also this class densely contains the class of Finikov and their collaborator, and their class is denoted by PnpQh, which is the set of all interpol of strict contact cens such that TP hat and Tq hat satisfies eco positivity. So observe that the Zika positivity condition are same for both of the classes. The difference is that they consider strict contractions instead of them. Instead of that, we consider one of the subtopolis pure.
00:16:33.990 - 00:18:05.924, Speaker B: So since strict contractions are already pure, their class contained in our class tau n equals and also the content when it's dense. And also the contentment is safer. And one example is that if we consider entropolo Hardy ships on some hard space, then the shift the tafule belongs to our class, but not in the class of Vinico and collaborator. And in this generalized class not only we find the isometric dilation, we find them exclusively, and which has some bigger impact in the corresponding von Neumann inequality. Now it is sufficient to work with the class tau n one and h instead of tau and pqas, because in particular, observe that tau n one nh is the set of all n tuple of committing contacts, and such that first n minus one tuple t n hat and last n minus one tuple t one hat satisfies eco positivity and tn hat is pure. Okay, so why this is sufficient to work with the class tau n one nh instead of this class? Because if we, let's take a tap in the class tau nq, then interchanging tp with t one and tqa with tn, we can always look at the tafel in the class tau n one and h. So our next result will be in terms of this class tau n one and h.
00:18:05.924 - 00:19:06.200, Speaker B: So first we'll find isometric dilations for the finite rank tuples in the class tau n one nh. So what are the finite rank tuples in the class t belongs to? Our class is called finite rank. If defect space with respect to t one hat and defect space with respect to t n hat are finite dimension. And for finite rank tuples, we have this isometric dilation result, let's say tbf hydro tank tuple in our class. Then t dialects to n tuple of commuting isometries on some hard space where the tuple consists of hardy shifts and some multiplication operator. So observe that the tuple t one two tn lies in the class tau n one and h. That means first n minus one tuple satisfies Zaco positivity and fuel, right? So using the kutofasi rescue result, we can dilate them n minus one table of hardy ships.
00:19:06.200 - 00:19:43.754, Speaker B: So now we left with the last component tn. So we have to dilate to some operator and that has to commute with the other ships. So we have observed that that operator which commutes with the shifts is a multiplication operator with respect to some multiplier. And since we are also expecting the dilation, isometric dilation mv has two isometry. So phi has to be inner function. And our theorem says that phi not only an inner function, it is a inner function with respect to the single variable z one. And since all the operators are isometric, this is an isometric dilation.
00:19:43.754 - 00:21:02.044, Speaker B: And the explicitness of this dilation helps us to refine the von Neumann inequality for the finite rank tuples in terms of an algebraic variety. That means what that means, let's say tbn tbf finite tuples in our class, then there existing variety p, such that vulnerable equality for the tuple holds on the variety v instead of the politics d itself. And the variety lies inside the closure of the unit politics. And moreover, uh, if tn is a pure contraction, so uh, according to the assumption of our class, first n minus one tuple was pure. But if we impose the purity condition of the last tuple then the distinct, the variety v has the form this where v prime is a distinguished variety in the a unit PI disk and v has the form v time times n minus two poly disk. So what is distinguished variety? A distinguished variety is an algebraic variety v with respect to some polynomial p such that v closure exceeds the boundary of d two through distinguished boundary. That means v closure intersection.
00:21:02.044 - 00:21:57.816, Speaker B: Boundary of d two is same as the v closure intersection distinguish boundary of d two. Now using a different method, we find so that was all about finite and tuples of our class. So now we need to find isometric direction for the general tuples in our class. Using a different method, we find isometric dilation for general tuples in our class tau n one nh and we find them explicitly. So let's say tb of hydrangea tuples in our class. Then t dial s two n tuple of isometries on some hard space on some evaluated hardest space over n minus one polydicks where the isometric tuple consists of hardy shifts and multiplication operator with respect to some phi one and phi two where phi one and phi two are inner correlation in our polynomials in z one variable of degree at most one. And not only that, they satisfy some interesting property.
00:21:57.816 - 00:22:58.118, Speaker B: If you multiply them, they commute with each other and the multiplication turns into the multiplication with respect to the variable z one. And this isometric dilation result, it tells us that avoid that upfront m ph one m and the shift and the tuple m three where phi one and fewer for element in z one of degree at most one and the and the property satisfied by them. So this tuple forms an model n tuple of isometrics in our class tau n one and a. And also as an immediate consequence of the isometric dilation result, we can say the tapu synol class satisfies the von Neumann inequality. So here are some references. The content of my talk can be found here and the result of kuto and Vasilascu can be found in this paper. This finishes my talk.
00:22:58.118 - 00:23:00.274, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you for your attention.
00:23:01.014 - 00:23:14.164, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Questions? Comments? Suggestions? So, that is a question in the chat. What is the von Neumann inequality useful form.
00:23:16.984 - 00:23:23.004, Speaker B: Von Neumann inequality useful? Sorry, can you repeat the question?
00:23:24.064 - 00:23:27.364, Speaker A: What is the von Neumann inequality useful for?
00:23:27.904 - 00:24:04.874, Speaker B: So, so it, yeah, so von Neumann quality basically tells us that what are the spectral state for the operator? Right? So every contraction satisfies vulnerable inequality means the unit politics is a spectral set for the contraction. Similarly, if a tapula committing contraction satisfies, one demand inequality means the unit politics is a strict asset for the tofu of committing avatars. So somehow it's. Somehow it's reveals the structure of the operator. What? The operator. Taffy.
00:24:06.934 - 00:24:30.614, Speaker A: Thank you. More questions? Comments? Well, if not, let us thank. Ah, okay, so, yeah, so that is a comment by Javad that it's useful for introducing a functional calculus, at least. Of course. Thank you, Jawad. And so, more comments?
00:24:32.634 - 00:24:39.554, Speaker B: Sorry for that, please. Sorry, I didn't get the comment. So.
00:24:39.674 - 00:24:45.778, Speaker A: So the comment was that it's useful for introducing a functional calculus. Just that? Yes.
00:24:45.866 - 00:24:46.186, Speaker B: Okay.
00:24:46.210 - 00:24:46.466, Speaker A: Okay.
00:24:46.490 - 00:24:48.254, Speaker B: Okay. Okay.
00:24:49.234 - 00:24:53.454, Speaker A: Well, if there are no more questions, let's thank Sivar passat again.
00:24:54.914 - 00:24:55.906, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:24:56.090 - 00:24:56.914, Speaker A: And, um.
