00:00:00.970 - 00:01:10.258, Speaker A: Hello everyone and welcome back to Decentralized Finance. Today we're going to discuss traditional finance. In particular, we're going to think a little bit about the problem that the existing system is supposed to solve, think a little bit about how it tries to solve it, and some of the frictions that are going to be important when we discuss some of the DeFi applications. Hello. So first of all, what is the finance problem? Essentially, in finance, we think that the world is full of many people who are interested in building wealth across time and across states that matter to them. One thing that we're going to talk about again and again is the fact that the states, as we define them in finance typically are different than the states than you might think of, for example, that come from a virtual machine or are defined by an oracle. So in the finance paradigm, everyone wants to have as much wealth as possible and in particular wants to have as much wealth as possible in states when they need it the most.
00:01:10.258 - 00:02:24.810, Speaker A: So circumstances or situations where they need it the most. The other thing is to essentially allow or make it easy for businesses to get capital that they need in order to invest in productive activities. The idea is that there's a whole bunch of entrepreneurs out there and entrepreneurs don't have access to all the resources they need to invest in factories, to buy software that they need and all these other things. So we rely on capital markets or the financial system to funnel money from people who have it sitting around and aren't really using it, to entrepreneurs and essentially to productive uses. The idea then is that that invested capital in productive activities generates more and more revenue, which grows everyone's wealth. So overall, the goal of the financial system is to make resources grow as much as possible and to allocate them efficiently both across time and across states of the world. So let me just reiterate again what a state is in finance.
00:02:24.810 - 00:03:03.030, Speaker A: So when we use the word state, we're thinking about a description of a series of events or circumstances of something that could happen. And usually we use the word in reference to somebody's utility. And by utility I mean their payoffs, things that affect their welfare. We also talk about characteristics that states can have. We think that states can be observable. We think that states could be verifiable. That means that even though you see a state, you can't prove that a state happened to somebody else.
00:03:03.030 - 00:03:30.800, Speaker A: If it is verifiable, you can prove that that state happened to somebody else. And we also think about states as being contractable. If a state is verifiable, so you can prove that it happened, then you can write a contract on it. Otherwise you can't really do it. It's very difficult. We also distinguish between two types of states. We think that there are some states that affect everyone.
00:03:30.800 - 00:04:20.350, Speaker A: So broadly speaking, you can think about these as macroeconomic events. You can think of these as war, you can think of these as massive price changes. The other type of state that we think about are states that only affect one or a few people. So these are things like my pet gets sick, my goldfish died, my house burned down. These things don't really affect you, but they really do affect me. The other concept that's useful to have in your mind is how we think about or how we use the word utility in finance. And we think that agents can rank any outcome that happens in a particular state by some ordinal measure that we're going to call utility.
00:04:20.350 - 00:05:31.350, Speaker A: So for example, if you're offered the choice between two things for dessert, either a purple pepper or a hot chocolate dessert, you could look inside yourself and say okay, hot chocolate is going to give me 20 utils, purple pepper is going to give me ten utils. So everyone will know that I prefer hot chocolate or I will know that I prefer hot chocolate to purple pepper as a dessert option. Once we have this idea that you can rank all these possible outcomes with the amount essentially of utility or joy that they give you, then we can sort of figure out how people are going to make choices. So we assign probabilities to states. We think about the choices that are available in the states, we think about the utility that agents will get in those states and then we just take expectations. The other thing that's sort of useful to think about to understand people's utility and finance is we usually think that agents don't like risk. That is they prefer a sure thing to a lottery.
00:05:31.350 - 00:06:25.030, Speaker A: And because people don't like risk, they're always going to be willing to pay an amount to avoid it. That is what the finance system is trying to solve. So how does the current system go about solving this problem? Well, the way to think about the system is that there's a whole bunch of agents and essentially what they're trying to do is they're trying to think about resources and split them up. So first of all, agents don't necessarily interact with each other directly. In the current financial system, agents interact through two objects that actually operate slightly differently. One is financial markets. You can think about financial markets as large, say stock exchanges like the New York Stock Exchange.
00:06:25.030 - 00:07:32.510, Speaker A: You can also think of financial markets as a app that you open up on your phone to decide where you're going to buy your mortgage. Both of those represent a type of marketplace. Or the other way in which agents interact in the economy is through banks or financial firms. Typically we use banks to store value, store our money, make payments, and financial firms typically provide us with access to financial markets if we can't enter them directly. So one of the big problems that DeFi is trying to solve is to redesign financial markets and also redesign some of the activities that banks and financial firms are currently performing. Now, once agents decide that they want to interact, there's this question about how they're going to split up any resources across time and states of the world. And the way they do it typically is through financial assets.
00:07:32.510 - 00:08:52.422, Speaker A: And financial assets refer to anything that describe how people are going to split up assets across time and states of the world. So for example, financial assets can be stocks, they can be bonds, they can be insurance is an example of a financial asset. And essentially you can just think of these as contracts that govern how and why real resources are divided up. The reason why these kinds of contracts, which are different from the smart contracts that you obviously learned about last week, is that we have a legal system that exists to enforce contracts. You know that if you write a contract with somebody and they're in default or they violate it, you have recourse, you can sue them and you can get some sort of recompense for it. So the legal system enforces these kinds of contracts. The final thing that we have in the current financial system that is useful is we have regulators, we have both policymakers in Washington and we have a whole bunch of alphabet of regulatory agencies whose job it is to make sure that the system works well.
00:08:52.422 - 00:10:11.802, Speaker A: So what do regulators do exactly? The basic principle behind most of the regulation is that most people who participate in financial markets are naive and we want to make sure, or they want to make sure that rules are in place so nobody is harmed if they participate in the financial market. As a concrete example, the securities and Exchange Commission or the SEC has a whole bunch of rules on how companies can behave when they're trying to raise money for investment activities. For example, companies have very stringent disclosure rules. They have to tell you about their cash flows and they can't lie. Another example of the type of rules that the SEC has set up is Fiduciary responsibility. If you have a broker who accesses financial markets for you, that broker has a mandated requirement to work in your best interests. That means that they have to not just not lie to you, but they have to do things above and beyond that threshold.
00:10:11.802 - 00:11:05.250, Speaker A: Essentially, they have to take special care of you. So these are rules that are promulgated by the SEC. The other sorts of regulations that are more political economy perhaps in nature, are who should be able to access the system. So for example, banks face a series of rules about under which they have to verify people's identities who access the financial system. And the idea here is that we want these rules to prevent criminals from making fraudulent money in a bad way and then managing it to enter it into the traditional system. So that's an anti money laundering requirement. There's also KYC or know your client requirement.
00:11:05.250 - 00:12:00.846, Speaker A: This is to prevent terrorists and people that we think are bad actors from accessing the financial system. So banks have an obligation to make sure that anyone who banks with them has provided government backed documentation. The other sort of rule that's very common is rules that are designed to make sure that the system is stable and we'll talk a little bit more about this in a second. Rules are set up so the system doesn't create its own risk. For example, banks have bank capital regulation. That means that they have to have a certain amount of equity in their capital structure. They have to essentially be sitting on a large enough pile of cash and they have to be sitting on a large enough pile of cash for two very particular reasons.
00:12:00.846 - 00:13:17.020, Speaker A: One, if suddenly a whole bunch of people want to withdraw from the bank, they have to have enough money there. Two, they have to have a large enough pile of cash on hand in case some of the investments that they have made turn out badly, the company, the bank still will not go bankrupt. Similarly, insurance companies have capital regulation. There's a worry that because insurance companies promise to pay you sometime in the future if something bad happens to you, the worry is that they're going to run out of enough funds to pay off claims. And so people will have been paying into insurance companies over time and then when it comes for them to get a payoff, they don't get it. So there's a lot of restrictions on insurance companies to ensure that they keep essentially a large enough pile of cash. Again, one of the reasons why these requirements are interesting and worthwhile to note is the requirements are in place for arguably reasonable social reasons that as a society, we think are useful to have.
00:13:17.020 - 00:14:42.120, Speaker A: However, the costs of these regulations are borne by the regulated entities. In particular, the banks argue that one of the reasons why some of the banking functions are very expensive is because they have this very, very strong regulatory burden. In a future lecture, we're going to discuss more of the implications of some of this regulation, but just keep it in mind as one of the causes of costs in the traditional financial system. Just a quick overview about some of the spillovers or externalities or market failures that regulators are trying to prevent. These words all have slightly different meanings, but for the purposes of this discussion, you can think of them as being the same thing. And roughly when we think of an externality, we're thinking of a situation where two people participate in a market and their actions have a consequence for other parties, third parties that are not directly part of the transaction. So for an example, if two people are negotiating in a marketplace and they decide to trade, that trade will automatically, as a byproduct, generate a price.
00:14:42.120 - 00:15:42.250, Speaker A: A third party who is not part of the directly part of the trade might use that price as a piece of information that they use to take a decision. So the fact that the price was generated as a byproduct of economic activity is an example of the sort of externality that we're thinking about and the sort of thing that regulators want to make sure are maximized if they're good. Some externalities can be bad. So we think about or we discuss things like systemic risk. Systemic risk an example of this is when one company goes bankrupt and because it goes bankrupt other companies that have a relationship with it that weren't anticipating this bankruptcy also go down because they're essentially hit by a radical shock. Arguably, this is what happened when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt. Market breakdown is another example of an externality.
00:15:42.250 - 00:16:40.640, Speaker A: People are worried about the other participants in a market and so they withdraw from it and no trade at all happens. This potentially is a very bad thing. Bank Runs an example of a bank run is where depositors anticipate that other depositors are going to withdraw their cash. They start worrying about whether or not the bank actually does have enough, a big enough pile of cash to pay out everyone. And so they try and run and come to the bank first. And because everyone is running and coming to the bank first, an overwhelming number of people come to the bank and withdraw their money. And because so many people come at the same time the bank runs out of its pile of cash even though if people had decided just to leave their cash there it would have been perfectly fine and there would have been enough for day to day operations and maybe everyone would have been better off.
00:16:40.640 - 00:18:12.060, Speaker A: These three are just all examples of the sorts of externalities or spillovers that regulators worry quite a bit about and try to reduce or monitor in the system. So how do you evaluate a financial system? Obviously we want to know if a new system like DeFi is better than a traditional system. Well, if both of the systems are doing exactly the same thing then it's pretty straightforward to compare. We just look at the costs in one versus the costs in the other and then we're done. What's a little bit tricky is that there can be other costs and benefits that we don't observe that still are important to be evaluated. For example, if people don't participate in a market because either it is too expensive for them or they don't have information about the market whatever reason, the absence of trade is potentially a cost that should be evaluated. If part of the system is developing systemic risk but that actually hasn't been realized that's still something that should be evaluated as part of a new system.
00:18:12.060 - 00:18:46.130, Speaker A: When you think about something like systemic risk, these are rare events. So of course, in most data we don't see them. But still a regulator. And anyone evaluating a system should be worried about things like systemic risk. Another source of inefficiency are things like market power or distorted incentives. Monopolists can extract more than their fair share of value from any trade. They can distort prices.
00:18:46.130 - 00:19:54.666, Speaker A: So market power is a source of inefficiency that should also be evaluated. The bottom line from all this is that sometimes there are subtle and not easy to observe effects that should be taken into account when we're evaluating whether one financial system is better than another. So overall, what's the summary from all this? A financial system works well if goods are allocated to the people who value them the most and people willingly participate in the system. It's also important to have regulators or some sort of guardrails to make sure that spillovers. So these effects on third parties are managed in everyone's best interests. For those interested in these topics, there's an economic discipline called mechanism design that makes some of these statements precise. And it's an interesting topic to think about.
00:19:54.666 - 00:20:57.600, Speaker A: That's a brief overview of the finance problem and the way that the current or traditional finance system solves that problem. The next segment is going to be about the standard financial instruments that are traded and how we can think about them as bundles of both cash flows and trading strategies. Hello everyone, and welcome back to DeFi. In this segment, we're going to talk about the basic financial instruments that are part of the traditional financial system. The common financial instruments that we see are bonds or fixed income instruments, equity or stocks derivative securities, the classic one of which is option contracts, and also time delayed securities such as forwards and futures. What's interesting about all these securities is they have payoffs that are defined over time and over states. So let's dig right in.
00:20:57.600 - 00:21:37.274, Speaker A: A bond, this is the simplest sort of fixed income instrument. And what it does is it has predictable cash flows that pay off over time. In this concrete example, I'm thinking of a 10% coupon bond. That means that the coupon payment or the interim payment is 10% of the face value. The face value in this example is 100. So what do the cash flows look like? Well, the first thing that you do is you buy the bond, you pay $120. And I've just pulled the $120 out of thin air.
00:21:37.274 - 00:22:13.826, Speaker A: As an example, every period after you've bought the bond, you get a coupon payment. Mechanically, the coupon payments are deposited in your bank account. We'll discuss a little bit later about what that means in terms of trading strategies. For now, just take it as given. So the first coupon payment is $10. The second coupon payment, which happens at T plus two, is also $10. And the third coupon payment, which happens at T plus three, is also $10 when the bond matures.
00:22:13.826 - 00:23:31.760, Speaker A: So the final period where you see it, T plus four, you get the principal back, which is $100 in this case and the last coupon payment. So in this way, a bond gives you predictable cash flows that happen over time. Another type of security that has payoffs that occur over time are what is known as futures and forwards. Futures and forwards differ somewhat in the mechanics of how they're traded, but the cash flows are broadly similar and so I'm going to lump them together. So what is a forward contract? With a forward contract, you agree today to trade at some specified point in the future and you also agree today on the price at which you're going to trade. In the context of this example, let's say that that price is $20 when the time in the future comes that you have agreed to trade. So in the context of this example, it's ten days later, settlement occurs and trade occurs at the price that you've already agreed to.
00:23:31.760 - 00:24:18.510, Speaker A: Mechanically, there are different ways in which futures and forwards settle. There's either cash amount or they settle in the underlying it doesn't really matter what's pertinent for futures and forwards is the profit that you make from entering into these trades. You've agreed to trade at $20. Let's suppose that you've agreed to buy. The amount of profit that you make is the difference between whatever the price is at that point in time. So ten days after you've agreed to enter into this trade minus the price at which you've agreed to trade, this is again, buy low, sell high. It always works in finance.
00:24:18.510 - 00:25:30.040, Speaker A: If you've agreed to sell forward, the amount that you make is the price that you've locked in. In our example, $20 minus whatever the current price is of this underlying thing that you're going to trade. A stock is an example of an investment that pays off both over time and over states. Usually we think of a stock as being a perpetual claim. So long as the company is still in operation, there's still the possibility of getting payments from the underlying the payment on a stock is called a dividend. What makes this different from the bond is that dividend payments are discretionary and they depend on if the company is doing well. In this way, you can think of a stock that pays off over time, but also over states that are defined by how well the company is doing.
00:25:30.040 - 00:26:07.382, Speaker A: If the company is doing well, it can pay a high dividend. If the company is doing badly, it pays a low dividend. In this example, I show the cash flows of a stock that you buy for $100. So that comes out of your pocket at the beginning of time, after which there's a dividend payment of $1. The dividend then grows at 5% and after that? Who knows? It depends on how well the underlying stock is doing. There's a set of securities whose payoffs are derived from other securities. An example is a call option.
00:26:07.382 - 00:27:01.880, Speaker A: A call option is something that you buy and when you pay for it, you buy the right to buy the underlying stock that it's defined on for a fixed price that you've agreed upon. In the context of this example, you've paid $10 for the call option and the call option gives you the right to buy the stock at a price of $5. At any point in time, the payoff from having this cool option is going to be the difference between the current traded price and $5. This can be positive or negative. It depends on if the current traded price is above or below $5. Because it can be negative, you're never forced to actually exercise an option. You can just essentially throw it away.
00:27:01.880 - 00:27:42.914, Speaker A: If it's positive, however, you probably want to exercise it similarly. You can have options to sell the underlying security. These are known as put options. In the context of this example, somebody is paying $10 for a put option that gives them the right to sell the stock at a price of $5. The payoff at any point in time is, of course, $5 minus whatever the stock price happens to be. Because it can be negative, you're not forced to actually go through the trade. You have the option to trade or not.
00:27:42.914 - 00:28:41.000, Speaker A: And once again, the state here is defined by the underlying stock price. A slightly different type of asset that's not traded in financial markets is insurance, but it is also a financial asset. And so what is an insurance contract? Well, you enter into an agreement with a financial institution and you pay a regular fee. In the context of this example, the regular fee is $5. At some point, if something bad happens to you, then the insurance company pays you a large amount of money that is proportional or some function of the financial loss that you've endured. So this is an example of a financial asset that pays off on a state that is specific to you and to your losses. It's worthwhile revisiting the 10% coupon bond just to think a little bit about what it is.
00:28:41.000 - 00:30:37.660, Speaker A: I said that you paid a certain amount for the coupon bond and you got regular cash flows until the bond expired, in which case you got the final payment of 110. Having those cash flows in the form of a coupon bond is exactly the same as having a whole series of bonds that pay off only one of those cash flows. For example, I could have a bond that paid off $10 at T plus $110 at T plus $210 at T plus three, and $110 at T plus four. And if I bought each one of those bonds with those single payoffs, it's pretty clear that the price of that bundle of bonds has to be equal to the price of the coupon bond. In this way, securities are the sum of the value of the individual components that go into the security and you can slice and dice them in any way that you want without changing the value of the individual elements. This property is called value addativity and it essentially says how you divide or you add up assets doesn't affect their value. What's interesting, and it'll be very, very pertinent in the context of DeFi, when we talk about some of the more interesting applications, in addition to cash flows, which securities markets already do, you can also think about assets as embedding other parts of the financial system.
00:30:37.660 - 00:31:58.760, Speaker A: Let me be a bit more concrete. I said that when you bought a coupon bond, you get the coupon payment delivered to your bank account at periodic intervals. So that is equivalent to going out and buying a bond, the value of which is that coupon payment and pre committing to trade it. In that way, a bond can be viewed as a bundle of two things a cash flow, which are the periodic payments, and how those cash flows arrive to you, which you can view at as being a trading strategy and a settlement system. Now, historically, coupon bonds have had their very, very particular structure just because when you borrow money from somebody, they feel more comfortable. If you pay them back at regular intervals, they feel that you're still there and they feel that they're going to be paid back. However, there's absolutely no economic reason why financial instruments, in particular bonds, have to be structured in this way.
00:31:58.760 - 00:32:41.570, Speaker A: And one of the things that DeFi does is it gives the ability to play around with both the cash flows and the trading strategies at the same time. This is something that we'll explore in much more detail when we talk about some of the specific protocols later on in the course. Hello everyone and welcome back to DeFi. In this segment we're going to talk about the people who participate in financial markets. Usually when we think about people who buy and sell in financial markets, there are two broad classes of people. First of all, they're retail investors or households. So these are small people.
00:32:41.570 - 00:33:21.760, Speaker A: Usually we think of them as being risk averse. So they don't like a risk. They're essentially looking to build wealth for the future and they're also looking to potentially hedge their risks. The other class of investor in the market we usually refer to as hedge funds or institutions. We think of these as essentially being risk neutral. They are sophisticated and potentially informed. By informed, we don't necessarily mean that they're trading on private information, which is a proprietary and potentially illegal thing to do.
00:33:21.760 - 00:34:21.810, Speaker A: We mean that they have a sophisticated understanding of prices, price formation, perhaps liquidity and liquidity formation. And they're better able to predict short term movements in prices we think that these type of traders are primarily making profits. Sometimes they're hedging positions because they've provided securities to other people and they're laying off risk as part of their natural business plans. So what do we know about retail investors? Once again, I want to emphasize that we think that they don't trade on superior information. Essentially they're just trading for private motives. Many empirical studies have shown that retail investors frequently hold inefficient portfolios so they could do better in their investment decisions. The sorts of problems that they run into is their portfolios are not properly diversified.
00:34:21.810 - 00:35:10.210, Speaker A: Essentially they're taking on too much risk for the return that they're getting. They also buy the wrong sorts of assets. Sometimes you can improve your overall wealth by buying assets that don't necessarily move in lockstep with, for example, your employment income. We find that retail investors don't make these kinds of decisions. The other thing about retail investors that's important to remember is that they typically face very high trading fees. Trading fees can either be explicit, in which case you know that you're paying a certain amount to enter a market or to get a portfolio. So for example, you can think about the loads that you have to pay on your mutual funds.
00:35:10.210 - 00:36:02.258, Speaker A: The other type of trading fees that are more perhaps insidious are implicit trading fees distortions in the process that come about because retail investors aren't that sophisticated. We also know that retail investors trade too much. They incur trading fees because of this and they don't necessarily hold the best portfolio all the time. What about hedge funds? Hedge fund is a technical term and it refers to a very specific legal investment vehicle. It's limited in the number of people who participate. And there are certain disclosure requirements that come about with hedge funds as a broad class. Hedge funds are to some extent a black box.
00:36:02.258 - 00:36:52.580, Speaker A: We don't quite know what goes on inside them. They take resources from investors, typically high net worth individuals or sophisticated investors, and they generate return distributions. You should bear this in mind when we think about some of the portfolio management applications in DeFi. One other characteristic of hedge funds that's useful to note, and this also extends to large investment banks who have a trading desk is they frequently take levered positions. By leverage I mean they borrow in order to invest. And leveraging is a very, very common practice in financial markets. You lever up a portfolio because you want to both increase the risk and the return.
00:36:52.580 - 00:38:03.494, Speaker A: To get a sense of how powerful leverage is, think about the following you have $1 of your own money that you plan to invest. In addition, you borrow fifty cents and invest in total $1 and 50 in the stock. And let's just suppose that the stock has a very particular outcome characteristic, which it starts off at a value of $1 and then with equal probability, it either doubles in. Value or halves what does your return distribution look like? Well, there are two outcomes from the stock it either doubles in value or halves. So the return is either 100% or -50% your stock position you invested $1.50 if it doubles your stock position is worth $3 if it halves your stock position is worth seventy five cents. In both cases you have to return the payment on the loan which is fifty cents.
00:38:03.494 - 00:38:56.540, Speaker A: The amount that you borrowed. We're assuming that the interest rate is zero. That leaves you in one case a return or a total of $2.50 and in the other case $0.25 which on your original investment of a dollar implies a return of 150% or -75% so from a security that either doubled or halved with equal probability you've managed to magnify the return on your portfolio. You've managed to magnify both the return and the risk on your levered portfolio. Leverage is very attractive to institutional investors just because of the way it magnifies risk and return.
00:38:56.540 - 00:40:01.150, Speaker A: Sophisticated investors will also use various derivative securities in order to get leveragelike features on their returns in the previous segment we talked a little bit about options, futures, contracts for difference which are another sort of derivative security. All of these generate payoffs that look like levered payoffs. Let me give you a concrete example about what happens when a sophisticated player is levered. You may remember the case of Archegos Capital, a very large bankruptcy that happened earlier this year. Archegos was a hedge fund and a family fund that borrowed from multiple prime brokers. You can think of a prime broker as essentially being a bank for hedge funds and institutional clients. What was particular about this case is that none of the prime brokers had discussed with each other how much they'd actually lent to Archigoss.
00:40:01.150 - 00:41:00.178, Speaker A: The other thing that you need to know to understand the sequence of events is that Archigoss had invested in a very concentrated portfolio. That means that they'd only bought a limited number of assets. In addition, they used those specific assets as collateral for the loans that they'd taken out from the different prime brokers. So what happened? The value of the collateral fell, there was a news event and some of the stocks that they'd invested in lost ground. At that point all the prime brokers were worried that the value of the collateral had fallen and that Archiegos had not given them enough for safekeeping. They issued margin calls and basically asked Archiegos to come up with more capital or more proof that they could eventually repay the loan. Of course Archiegos couldn't do this.
00:41:00.178 - 00:42:08.622, Speaker A: So what happened one of the prime brokers started to sell the collateral because the collateral was used as the collateral on all the other loans. As this company started to sell the price of the underlying securities dropped, everyone else's collateral fell in value and it became clearer and clearer that Archigoss would not be able to repay their loan. The story of Archegos is a systemic event. Many different prime brokers were all exposed to the same risk, and something happened to Archegos and it affected them all. Luckily, everyone was well capitalized enough that there were no bankruptcies, a result of the Archigoss failure? There could well have been. And the purpose of a regulation is to prevent something like the Archegos failure from wiping out a large number of financial firms. In the next segment, we'll discuss in a bit more detail how people actually trade and access markets in traditional finance.
00:42:08.622 - 00:42:34.880, Speaker A: I'll see you there. Hi, everyone. Let's talk a little bit about how people actually trade. The equity markets in the US. Are extremely complicated. They're partially complicated because there are a lot of competing venues and competing ways of accessing stocks and stock risks. There are also a lot of rules and regulations that bind everything together.
00:42:34.880 - 00:43:38.760, Speaker A: If you're an average retail investor deciding that you want to buy a stock portfolio, there are many different ways in which you can go about doing it. You might have a broker, so this would be something like Schwab eshwab Robinhood, a way to access the financial markets. Alternatively, you might go to a company like Vanguard and have a mutual fund. A mutual fund is essentially a portfolio of stocks that a mutual fund company packages and then sells to you for a small fee. You might actually as well think about going and buying an exchange traded fund. An exchange traded fund is a portfolio of stocks that, instead of being offered by a mutual fund per se, is actually offered by another entity and trades directly on a stock exchange. So you have control over when you buy and sell an exchange traded fund.
00:43:38.760 - 00:44:38.606, Speaker A: Once the retail investor has decided how they want to access the market, they go ahead, lay down their money. Then what happens? Well, if they go to a broker, or indeed also to a mutual fund, it's quite possible that their order doesn't actually hit the securities markets. That order is what we call internalized. For example, if a broker has a buy order and a sell order in the same stock, they won't necessarily send those both to the exchange. What they'll do is they'll act as a mini exchange and cross them internally. There are rules and regulations on the price at which they can do this. Typically, they pick the best price that is currently in the market, but it never actually sees the stock exchange.
00:44:38.606 - 00:45:31.622, Speaker A: It's internalized. If you do actually decide to trade through the stock exchange, what is that? In the US. There is something called the National Market System. What this is is a set of rules and regulations that bind together multiple competing exchanges. Competing exchanges, for example, like Nasdaq and the New York Stock Exchange, but also regional exchanges boston, Cincinnati their rules on how far apart the prices on these various exchanges can diverge and they compete fiercely. They compete by offering different types of orders. They also compete by offering services to institutional traders and high frequency traders, for example, colocation.
00:45:31.622 - 00:46:18.600, Speaker A: They essentially rent them a room right next to their servers. Once an order goes through the National Market system and it executes, it's sent off to the DTCC. This is a monopolist organization that handles custody and central clearing of equities and a lot of fixed income in the US. The DTCC records ownership and is the final word essentially on who owns what. Let's dig a little bit more into the idea of competing trading venues. This pie chart gives you some sense of the different competing venues that you have. In the US.
00:46:18.600 - 00:47:12.394, Speaker A: There are 13 exchanges. An exchange is a technical term that is used by the SEC and it has certain regulatory implications. So the word exchange that we just use in common parlance is different from an actual technical exchange. An example of this is there are ways in which you can trade or their trading venues that are what is known as ATS or alternate trading systems. These are not registered exchanges, but to the outside or the layman, they look a lot like exchanges. OTC refers to over the counter, so things that don't go through a registered exchange or an alternate trading system. These could be very large trades that are negotiated outside of the public view.
00:47:12.394 - 00:48:21.050, Speaker A: And once the trade is consummated and agreed on, then it gets reported. That would be an example of an over the counter or OTC venue. To give you some sense of how fierce the competition is between venues, this graph shows market share, so percentage of stocks traded volume over time. As you can see, in the early ninety s, the New York Stock Exchange, the NYSE had the lion's share of the stocks that were listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Over time, Nasdaq, which is a competing entity, has got a higher and higher percentage of the trading volume. Bats, which is a relatively newcomer, so they only came 2008. They have also an increasing share.
00:48:21.050 - 00:49:04.720, Speaker A: Now. Everything is sort of split between these different exchanges. To get a sense of why New York Stock listed stocks might trade on different trading venues, there's something called unlisted trading privileges. So if a company decides to go public on the New York Stock Exchange, the minute those shares are public, the other exchanges can ask for approval, regulatory approval, to start trading those securities on their platform. Competition is fierce once an order hits the market. The structure of all these markets are very, very similar. Most things trade in what is known as a limit order market.
00:49:04.720 - 00:49:53.406, Speaker A: This is a continuous double auction and there'll be a bit more of discussion about this. When we talk about automated market makers, of course, because they have a slightly different or they have a very different design. Just to give you some sense or some flavor of how a limit order market works. In a limit order market, people who are willing to supply liquidity post orders. Those orders could either be offers to sell or bids to buy. Suppose somebody is posting an offer to sell, they're going to specify a price. So in this case, the lowest price at which somebody is willing to sell is 10.1.
00:49:53.406 - 00:50:48.480, Speaker A: The quantity that they're willing to sell is 500. Similarly, in the graphic that I've got here, the highest price at which somebody is willing to buy is 9.9. And the quantity that they're willing to commit to that is 400. In terms of jargon, the lowest price at which somebody is willing to sell is called the ask price. The highest price at which somebody is willing to buy is called the bid price. Markets are viewed as being more successful if there is more posted liquidity. This is because if somebody is desperate to trade and wants to trade immediately, if there's more posted liquidity on the market, they can trade a larger volume at a more advantageous price.
00:50:48.480 - 00:51:49.298, Speaker A: That intuition can be captured in the way we measure trading costs on modern limit order markets. And the thought experiment is the following if there were no trading frictions, if everything worked just perfectly, then all trade would occur at the fundamental value. If something is worth a dollar, you would buy it for a dollar or sell it for a dollar. But of course there are frictions and we don't observe the fundamental value. The only thing that we observe are the prices at which people have posted limit orders in the past. And so a proxy that people use for the fundamental value is just the midpoint of the bid and the ask prices. So this averages the lowest cost at which somebody is willing to sell, the highest cost at which price at which somebody is willing to buy.
00:51:49.298 - 00:52:53.400, Speaker A: And the difference between that, the midpoint between that basically is our proxy for what we think at any point in time, the value of the thing that they're trading is. To get a sense of how this translates into cost, think about somebody who comes to the market and wants to buy. The price at which they're going to buy is the lowest price at which somebody is willing to sell. On the previous slide, we call that the ask price. So if somebody wants to buy a small amount immediately, their cost over the true value is the difference between the ask and the midpoint. In this way or because of this, one of the proxies that people use to decide whether or not a market is efficient, whether or not a market has low trading costs is what is known as the spread. How far the ask price from the bid price is and how that varies over time.
00:52:53.400 - 00:53:56.060, Speaker A: More complicated measures exist in the literature, but roughly they're all trying to capture the same thing. We have a proxy for what we think the value is. And let's try and understand how much of a markup you pay over that, how much of a discount you get over that if you're selling another source of fees that is not immediately obvious when you trade are what is known as make take fees. These are a feature of all modern markets. I said before that a market is viewed as successful if there is more posted liquidity in order to incentivize traders to come in to a specific market and to post liquidity to have it sitting there. Markets will typically offer traders who post liquidity rebates. They will give them money.
00:53:56.060 - 00:54:47.660, Speaker A: They only get that money if the order executes. So if a trade goes through, but this is an incentive. Those kinds of fees are known as make fees because somebody is making liquidity and the make fees are negative. If somebody comes in and takes liquidity out of the system by submitting a market order and having it execute, essentially they're making the whole market look slightly worse. So they pay an additional fee on top of any price distortion that they have to pay. These are called take fees because you're taking liquidity from the system. To give you some sense of the numbers, these are make take fees from September 2020.
00:54:47.660 - 00:55:32.490, Speaker A: The blue are take fees. So these are the fees that are paid by people who go into a market and remove liquidity. The numbers here seem to be pretty small and this is per share. However, these fees are a large source of revenue for all the exchanges. The take fees differ across different exchanges and the make fees, which are predominantly negative, also differ across exchanges. A negative fee is, of course, a rebate. There are some exchanges that are called inverted exchanges that basically follow completely different strategies.
00:55:32.490 - 00:56:36.240, Speaker A: That's a matter of detail. Most exchanges will charge somebody who takes liquidity out of the system and give a rebate to somebody who puts liquidity into the system. After trade has occurred, everything moves to the Depository Trust Clearing Corporation, or DTCC. DTCC is an example of a central clearing entity, and the way it works is that every day brokers post margins in order to cover what is going to be their net position. The reason why they have to post margins or collateral is because at some point the DTCC guarantees that they're going to be the counterparty against any trade. This is an important function because we don't have instantaneous settlement in securities markets. Settlement takes place over a couple of days.
00:56:36.240 - 00:57:28.714, Speaker A: The system in the US. Is somewhat unique in the sense that there is a monopolist that is the central clearing party. In Europe, there are competing central clearing parties, but the structure is exactly the same. To give you some sense of what effect a CCP can have on trade and trade dynamics, I want you to remember Robinhood and the GameStop incident, as you know, Robinhood offers zero commission trading. It's not really zero cost, it's zero commission. The reason is that Robinhood bundles all the orders and sells them to, for example, hedge funds who find having uninformed order flow useful. At some point, GameStop became a meme stock.
00:57:28.714 - 00:58:22.110, Speaker A: So many, many people were buying GameStop, and they were all going in one direction. That meant, as far as the DTCC was concerned, robinhood had a really, really massive net position, and they exposed the DTCC to a huge amount of risk. Robinhood was required, as are all brokers, to post margin at the DTCC. Regulations prevent them from essentially hitting up their customers for more margins. At some point, the DTCC asked them to post more margins and they couldn't borrow because they were too much of a credit risk. They couldn't borrow enough, and essentially they weren't allowed to increase their position anymore. And so they had to essentially stop accepting orders.
00:58:22.110 - 00:59:05.550, Speaker A: In our next segment, we'll think about the final step in the trading process, which is payments. How do you pay for this stuff? I'll see you there. In this segment, we'll discuss the payment system and money. The first thing to notice is that processing payments is actually very expensive. This is a difficult number to estimate, but old estimates in the US. Suggest that something like 3% of GDP is consumed just by processing transfers of value for anyone who's traveled outside the US. It's obvious that the US.
00:59:05.550 - 01:00:08.174, Speaker A: Lags behind many countries in the payment system, certainly the consumer facing payment system. Consumers frequently don't see costs associated with payments. As a concrete example, when you use a credit card, even though you think that the amount that you're paying is directly the amount that's coming out of your account, the amount that the merchant gets is usually substantially less than the amount that you're paying. In other words, when you use a credit card, the merchant is the one who essentially gets a discounted price. This can be as large as 10% for small merchants, which is a substantial wedge between what the consumer sees and thinks prices are and what the merchant sees and thinks prices are. In the US. There are multiple different payments systems.
01:00:08.174 - 01:01:21.178, Speaker A: We call them rails, and they differ in speed whether or not payments are made essentially in real time or whether or not they take three or four days to clear in finality whether or not they can be reversed and also in liability. One of the things that is frequently baked into payment systems is an assignment of liability depending on whether or not there is fraud or whether or not it was a mistake. I e. Whether or not the payment can be reversed. In the case of regulatory by a regulator, another way of saying that payments are expensive is that payments are profitable. This chart comes from the McKinsey Global Payments map, and it gives you some sense of global payments revenue broken down by time and also broken down by area for the people who are processing payments. So these bar charts are in trillions of US.
01:01:21.178 - 01:02:19.740, Speaker A: Dollars, obviously in 2020, with COVID estimates got a little bit shaky, but that is COVID. One thing to notice about this chart is the share of banking revenues that can be attributed to payments. These are extremely important for banks. They're important both for domestic payments and also for the very lucrative cross border payments which are done through what is known as a correspondent banking system. Before we talk a little bit about how banks are using payments and how they're integrated into the payment system, let's take a step back and think about money, what it is, and how we want to think about it as value. Money is usually described as performing three different functions or having three attributes. One, it is a stable store of value.
01:02:19.740 - 01:03:38.900, Speaker A: Two, it is a unit of account and three, a medium of exchange. So easy and safe to use in transactions to make some of these or these three characteristics concrete and explain why they are important for what we call money. Just think about somebody who essentially wants to has cheese and wants to end up with pumpkins or generally a cornucopia. If they're in a world where they can barter directly with the person who has the cornucopia, they can go ahead and do it and they can figure out what the exchange rate is between cheese and cornucopia. If, however, they're physically distant or there's some other friction that prevents them from bargaining directly, they have to go through a third party. And let's suppose that that third party owns and values cows. At this point, you have to have an exchange rate between cheese, cows, cows, cornucopia, and everyone has to be comfortable that those exchange rates will remain static over time.
01:03:38.900 - 01:04:42.780, Speaker A: If, however, there's a numeraire good that everyone will accept as a store of value, everyone understands what the value of that store is compared to what they have and what they own, then everything becomes much more efficient. We know the dollar price of cheese, the dollar price of cows, the dollar price of corneucopia, and you can move easily between one and the other. This is why those three characteristics of money are extremely important. It's also useful to notice that money is a social institution. There's no reason why anyone would think that little bits of green paper with historical figures on them is a valuable thing. It's only a valuable thing because everyone thinks it is a valuable thing. As a concrete example, take this playing card.
01:04:42.780 - 01:05:22.834, Speaker A: In the old days, the French colonies in Canada would occasionally run out of physical gold. That was at that time used as money. So what did the governor do? The governor took playing cards and basically stamped them with a seal. This is what the illustration is on the back and basically said, okay, well, we don't actually have anything that we can use for money, real money, which is gold. What we're going to use is we're going to use playing cards. And everything was quite successful. The governor had said that this is what was going to be used as currency.
01:05:22.834 - 01:05:55.730, Speaker A: Everyone used it and just went on with their lives. Another example are these stones from the island of Yap. Basically, these are extremely large stones. They were viewed as sources of value. Of course, they're too big to move. So what do you do? Basically, they would retain an oral history of who owned what fraction of which stone. Here, closer to home, mackerel apparently was used.
01:05:55.730 - 01:06:50.210, Speaker A: Tins of mackerel was used as currency in prisons, I think partially because nobody actually wanted to eat the mackerel. It stayed around forever and it was easy to use as a medium of exchange. Anything is possible to use as money. Why did we end up with little green bills as being representative of value? Well, the reason why we hold money in terms of little green bills is at some point because if you live in the US. You know that you're going to have to pay taxes and you can do it with those little green bills. The government can also pass rules on legal tender and say what you can accept. Now, let's think about what kind of money actually circulates in the modern economy.
01:06:50.210 - 01:07:21.950, Speaker A: In the US. There are three very, very different currencies that trade at par and that we view as being interchangeable. First of all, there's physical currency. These are the green bills. Physical currency is essentially an IOU from the central bank to consumers to all of us. And we accept it because we don't think the central bank will fail. In addition, there are central bank reserves.
01:07:21.950 - 01:07:56.280, Speaker A: These are an IOU from the central bank to commercial banks. This is a sort of wholesale money. Consumers can't actually access central bank reserves. In addition, there is effectively private money. This is commercial bank money and it's an IOU from banks to consumers. Let's make that a little bit more precise. If you have money floating around, you probably have a bank account.
01:07:56.280 - 01:08:33.742, Speaker A: So consumers who have cash put it in a bank. What does a bank do with it? Well, banks don't keep all of that cash in a vault. We don't have what is called narrow banking. We have fractional reserve banking. What that means is you put a dollar into the bank and the dollar doesn't stay in the bank. Rather, the bank takes seventy cents of it and lends it out. Now, what happens to that $0.70
01:08:33.742 - 01:09:08.910, Speaker A: that was lent out? The person who gets that money doesn't spend it on the day that they get it. Typically they redeposit it into the bank. So what's happened? You deposited a dollar and suddenly there's a dollar and $0.70 floating around. You think you have a dollar. The person who got the loan has money. And essentially the bank has created a value out of thin air by giving the person who received the loan a demand deposit.
01:09:08.910 - 01:10:46.720, Speaker A: There's a name for this. We sometimes call this inside money, a logical consequence of the fact that banks are allowed to lend out more in value than has been deposited into them. Most of the money that we see in circulation that I have, that you have, that everyone has, is in fact, privately created by commercial banks. Now, how do banks exactly plug into the payment system? If you think about two separate banks, each of whom has consumers that bank with them, at some point the consumers at each bank are going to have business relationships with each other and they're going to either write checks or swipe credit cards or do something. And the banks are essentially going to owe each other money. So if one of the blue people over here writes a check for an orange person over here, the orange person will deposit it in their bank account and their bank is going to demand money from the blue person's bank. How does the interbank payment system work? There are various interbank wholesale platforms that only banks typically, and other regulated entities like this have access to, that allows them to transfer value throughout the course of the day.
01:10:46.720 - 01:11:41.134, Speaker A: One of them is called Fedwire, but it's certainly not the only one. Another one is called chips. This is actually run by a consortium of banks. If you've ever used Zell, which is a bank account to bank account almost instantaneous value transfer system, it runs through a rail called Early Warning System. Accessing these rails is not free. There's a cost associated with it and there's also a collateral cost. And the collateral cost comes about because the amount of money that sloshes through the system on a daily basis is much, much larger than the reserves that the banks have.
01:11:41.134 - 01:12:26.640, Speaker A: At the central bank. There is always a worry that one bank will go down and again be a source of systemic risk. The thought that I want to leave you with is what does a bank do? Banks provide a bundle of services and they do at least three things. They provide storage. So if you have money, you don't necessarily want to keep it under your mattress, you're quite happy to leave it in a bank once your money is there. It's very, very easy to use a bank to process payments. So they're important to transfer value.
01:12:26.640 - 01:13:09.370, Speaker A: Once they have your money, they know quite a bit about you. They know your income coming in, they know your balances and so forth. And so banks typically also offer a whole suite of financial services. Now, these three things have been bundled together partially. Historically, storage used to be an important component of the banking system because most people used gold or metal as essentially a store of value and a medium of exchange. They used it as money. And because metal is easy to steal, because it's heavy, it's difficult.
01:13:09.370 - 01:14:26.800, Speaker A: It was much easier to store this in a bank. Now, of course, value is not stored with physical heavy methyl and so the storage component of bank becomes much less important. In short, there's no economic reason why these three different functions that constitute what banks do should be bundled the way they are. That said, the fact that they are bundled and there is such a thing as a bank makes life much easier for regulators. One entity is easier to regulate than multiple different entities. And if there are any spillovers between the different functions such as storage, payment processing and so forth, then regulators can force banks to internalize those spillovers as opposed to having to think about each individual element and how it's contributing to the system as all. One of the promises of DeFi is the ability to unbundle these traditional financial institutions and hopefully to make a better system.
