00:00:00.240 - 00:00:25.366, Speaker A: Thank you guys for being here. I know this is the vampire session of the day. It's the second last one I just noticed on the schedule. So I appreciate your patience, your diligence, especially when the weather is so nice outside, to be here. So before I fully dive into what we're doing, do I have a quick show of hands of. Do you guys know who signum is? Not so many. All right, cool.
00:00:25.366 - 00:01:08.352, Speaker A: So I'll give you a very quick overview of who Signum is first, and then I can tell you what we're doing with CDFI. So, Signum is the world's first digital asset bank. It's founded in Switzerland and in Singapore. We have now 250 employees, and we were built with a digital asset focus. So we started, the concept began back in 20, 1617, where we worked with Finma to explain how we can actually regulate digital assets in existing regulatory frameworks. And we received our banking license two years later in 2019. And today, in 2024, we have over 4 billion in assets in custody, 1800 clients around the world and clients in 70 countries.
00:01:08.352 - 00:01:58.560, Speaker A: And we like to say basically everywhere except America. But we're also backed by some of the bigger names in the industry, like Animoca brands, Bitrock, and so on. As a bank, you typically also get your classic IBAn accounts in swiss franc, us dollar, swiss franc, us dollar, Singh dollar, and euros. But also you can buy, sell, trade all of your crypto assets directly from your e banking portal. You can stake your assets. We're an institutional grade custody provider, so that means that you really know that your assets are safe and regulated by Finma here in Switzerland. And that's interesting, right? It's cool that there's a bank that's gives you access to crypto, like, well done, but we'll get to the good stuff, I promise.
00:01:58.560 - 00:03:01.784, Speaker A: We're regulated in Switzerland, Singapore, Luxembourg, and UAE. And what I really like to emphasize is, what does it mean to be regulated? So you have lots of players in the space that say that they are regulated financial institutions, but being a fully licensed bank means that all of your crypto assets stay off balance sheet. And that means that when things go absolutely upside down, if there's a bankruptcy event, if there's a liquidation event, any of these things with signum, all of your assets are simply transferred back to you. You returned your private keys. There is no counterparty risk, which is usually the biggest concern with banks and also with working with custodial institutions, as we saw in 2022. So with these other institutions, they're typically quite easy to set up, but tents that are quick to set up don't really do well in stormy weather. And that's why it's still important to have fully regulated players like signum in this space.
00:03:01.784 - 00:03:25.418, Speaker A: So all the things I talked about so far was, yeah, yeah, bank. Cool to have a bank. What do we do with DeFi? First, the overview. Right. So we've got CFI providers very, very categorically different from what all the DeFi providers in the space do. The DeFi ones are exciting, they're cool, they have lots of new opportunities on the CFI side. They have easier access.
00:03:25.418 - 00:04:22.436, Speaker A: Maybe there's some partially regulated, but there is still a lot to be discovered, I think, in the integration of both of these sectors. So at Signum, we talk a lot about CDFI, which is really embracing the innovation of deFi, but doing so within the regulated frameworks of the traditional world. And that means honoring the rules of KYC, the rules of AML, and making sure that whatever we're doing as we innovate, we're not breaking things. At Signum, we say the future has heritage, and that is, we believe in this great, super sovereign, really well individualized world of finance. But the direction there is from where we are today, and that means we have to move with care and with, and taking the institutions with us. So on the defi side, of course, it's really permissionless, it's inclusive. Anybody can go on there, do whatever they want.
00:04:22.436 - 00:04:57.234, Speaker A: They've got flexible, composable money, Legos. But there are these risks that you don't really know who your counterparties are a lot of the time, and there is the risk of key loss. You know, there is no fail safe on the CFI side. It's Kyc that's permissionless and so on. But also, it's very slow. I mean, everybody in this room knows that there's a lot that the traditional world can gain from Defi. But the truth is, if you want the institutions to come, if you want the institutions to play, you've got to bring in these safeguards that make it safe for them to do so.
00:04:57.234 - 00:05:46.164, Speaker A: So how do we do this? When I was building this presentation, I kind of went through the bank. I went to all the departments and said, hey, guys, give me a good story. What are all the things we're doing? And the truth is, I have probably, I know, another 20 slides or so, and I don't think I'm going to be able to cover all of them. So we're not a huge number in this room. So I would basically encourage you to jump in and ask me if there's something that pops up along the way that you think is interesting, if there's something more you want to know, because then I can spend more time on the stuff that actually is interesting to you all. So the first one, the most obvious one probably is ecosystem supports. So we work with network security and governance for a whole bunch of protocols, which is running the validator nodes, running governance for them.
00:05:46.164 - 00:06:49.782, Speaker A: And we do this through our venture arm. Then we have signum Rise, which is really designed to support younger players in the space, which is help them with their fundraising, help them with connections within the ecosystem. Especially when you're starting out, it can be quite challenging. And so there's a specific arm dedicated to just supporting this ecosystem. And then the third is of course the clients of the bank, where you get access to banking services. So on the first leg you've got Dfinity, Cosmos, DK, Synclet, and these are all networks that we work with, that we run validator nodes for, and then in turn also support their ecosystems at the bank and with our rise initiative. So there's of course you get a bank account, which is great, you get to fundraise in a compliant way, which is actually quite challenging because in many parts of the world, there isn't a lot of clarity around what you really need to be doing to make sure that you're being compliant.
00:06:49.782 - 00:08:11.686, Speaker A: And so when you work with the bank at the outset, you already know that in the future, whenever regulation does come, you can always point back and say, hey, look, we started on the right foot, we wanted to be compliant, and we worked with the most regulated player in this space to ensure this. And then, like I said, on the community side, matchmaking with other VC's, working with our social media, coming on a podcast, we have demo days and VC days. So there's all these ways to encourage smaller, younger startups in the space to grow and gain visibility and credibility from being associated with a bank like us. Regulated staking solutions this again, seems kind of, yeah, anybody can stake assets, you know, what's the big deal? But actually imagine doing this inside your own banking UI. So logging into a UES portal, maybe there's bitcoin there, you can buy some bitcoin, great. But imagine being able to just take your ethereum and then get a tax statement at the end of the year on what your taxation is, on the rewards that you've gained, and doing all of this through a really simple, easy user interface and knowing that it's from a regulated banking provider. So today we offer Ethereum, Cardano, Dfinity, Tezos and Cosmos.
00:08:11.686 - 00:08:49.264, Speaker A: But this list is always growing. So those are kind of like the low hanging fruit, right? What else are we doing? So, in the asset management space, I talked about this earlier on the panel that I was on. We really were looking at how to expand our offering. So the first thing with asset management is, of course, like, you know, buy a single token. Great, now what? Pooled investment solutions. Okay, you can bring a couple of things together, put a strategy on top of it. Then you've got an interesting product, perhaps then you want to create the next level, which is an institutional grade solution for larger players to also participate in the crypto space.
00:08:49.264 - 00:09:29.896, Speaker A: All of these things are off chain. These are just banking products. So we said we also need to build something that's happening on chain. And how do we and leverage kind of the power of crypto in the assets that are also crypto. And so, in case it wasn't clear, why are on chain solutions important or interesting? They're super scalable. There's a lot of speed, increase in speed, the amount of oversight, or not oversight, but the amount of man or person hours dedicated to managing all of this is a lot lesser. And for the individual who's actually doing the investment, you get a lot more personalization in the actual assets that you're investing in.
00:09:29.896 - 00:10:11.374, Speaker A: So it gives you this level of individualization on investment strategy that typically would not have been possible unless you are an ultra high net worth in individual or something like this. But when you're doing this on chain and doing it through a bank, suddenly a lot of these things become options for you as well. And of course, increased transparency. So at the end of the day, you can always log on, see on chain exactly what your nav is, how your assets are performing. You don't have to wait for the end of the month for an asset manager to generate one specific sheet, and then also have to trust that sheet. Here you can see everything on chain, which is fantastic. So we decided to work with enzyme finance.
00:10:11.374 - 00:11:02.040, Speaker A: They're based here in Zurich. They've been around for a while. So when we were looking into the market, looking into what we wanted to do, it was really important to partner with a provider that really prioritizes institutional grade features. So this includes things like subscription queuing. Because we've got a whole bunch of people bringing money in, we can't have them going in one after the other. And that means that everyone gets different value on their trades. So being able to do that in a way that everyone has these individual books, but has them also with an even trading record, the governance model, how do we make sure that everything that's happening on chain is also being governed in a way that doesn't allow rug pulls to happen, doesn't allow the original protocol creators to step in and then change the rules of engagement halfway through? Because we all know that this is still possible.
00:11:02.040 - 00:11:54.438, Speaker A: There is a backdoor for a lot of the Defi protocols out there, and then also ensuring that the market makers that we work with are verified. Because with Finma, with being a fully regulated institution, this is something that's super challenging. We have to know that the counterparties that we have, even if it is happening not inside of signum necessarily, but on enzymes interface that the counterparts we work with over there are also verified. So we really got this buy in from the enzyme team to work with us on a compliant vision. And this is a very high level of what the actual solution looked like. So you can see that the client works with Signum storage and Signum's core banking solution. Then there is a pooled wallet that engages with the enzyme interface.
00:11:54.438 - 00:12:50.004, Speaker A: Enzyme's interface works only with a specific market maker that we've pre vetted and decided and said that is okay. And the enzyme governance council has an owner wallet, but then Signum is also involved in the governance of that. So it eventually creates a solution that enables us to kind of unleash the power of blockchain in a kind of classic asset management solution. Another cool product that we're working on is called social recovery. This one's very close to my heart because it's something that I'm personally working on as well. You all probably know I talked about key loss earlier on, but also in the crypto space, there's been a lot of conversation around multisig social recovery. So everyone knows that eoas are quite risky as a place to store all of your assets.
00:12:50.004 - 00:13:35.884, Speaker A: Typically, people would need a smart contract wallet. And in that smart contract wallet, like, it's nice if I make my mother or my husband or somebody else signatories with me, but what says that they're going to be able to actually come in and retrieve my assets should things go really badly? And so there is a role here for institutions to play. You can have your own devices, you can have your family and friends, but there is an important role that institutions need to play. And we believe that signum, because of where we sit in the ecosystem, is the right sort of person to enter the market and offer this solution. So we work with safe. It's one of the largest multi seq wallet providers out there. It's in development.
00:13:35.884 - 00:14:08.024, Speaker A: But this is like a teaser of what the solution looks like. So it begins with identification. I know that a lot of the pure DJN people feel that KYC is a problem, but I'm sorry, if you're working with a bank, Kyc is a part of the story. Get on board. But you have to identify yourself. You subscribe to the service and then, let's say things go terribly, you lose your keys. So then you come to signum, report your loss event, you reidentify yourself, you swap out your keys and you gain access to your safe account.
00:14:08.024 - 00:14:47.410, Speaker A: We had to then design this solution in a way that really protects the end user. We didn't want this to be custody. We didn't want this to be confused with custody in any sense because we're not touching the funds at all. So this is kind of example. So let's say Alice, Bob and Cam have a vault which is set up as a two of three multiseg. Alice and Bob both lose their access, and in this case, they trigger a recovery. Signum steps in and reassigns Alice's wallet to a new wallet, and then Alice can continue to access the vault with Cam because now they have a two of three setup.
00:14:47.410 - 00:15:24.348, Speaker A: Again, what have we done in this case is to show that Signum never actually touches the vault. You never touch the funds. We have no contact with the money that's in the vault. And also we've put in place a buffer. So this means that when you trigger a recovery, um, your, whichever, uh, notification devices that you've enlisted into the setup get a notification saying, hey, look, something's going on with your safe. Is this something that you wanted or not? And then there's a seven day period or a 30 day period, depending on what you choose as your setup. But then you can go in and, you know, move your assets out if this was not something that you wanted to do.
00:15:24.348 - 00:16:01.804, Speaker A: And in that way, saving kind of defines and codes into the actual product distance from the assets. And that's what was really important to us because this is clearly not a custodian setup. So from our side, what are the safeguards we've put in? One is split recovery. So within the bank as well, there's the product team, and then there's the banking compliance team, and both of them have to accept a recovery transaction or swap. There's the buffer period that I just talked about, which means that you continue to have on chain veto rights. You can stop this thing from happening if you don't want it to happen. We're technically limited, so the only thing we can do is swap out your wallet.
00:16:01.804 - 00:16:59.366, Speaker A: But we can't touch the funds, we can't increase the number of wallet holders, decrease them, none of that. Our capabilities are quite severely limited. We have the identification process, and then in the reidentification process, you are interviewed by a banking officer, and then depending on the size of your vault, there's a risk weighted approach to how much more we also do, like whether it's our compliance team, the head of our compliance team, who else gets involved to ensure that this is happening the right way. And then, of course, because as a bank, we have a lot of oversight in our smart contract and our codes to make sure everything is audited. So if you guys are interested, you can scan this QR code and join our waitlist. This product will be coming out, I'm hoping, by the 23 may, but I will not commit because I'm going to hear from my product owner on Monday. But the plan is free.
00:16:59.366 - 00:17:27.996, Speaker A: Third, am I out of time already? Almost. Okay, I'll talk about this one as my last case. I have two more studies, but I will stop after this one. You guys might have seen some of the big borderings around town right now. We're really proud to be working with post finance. Signum actually supports the back end for a lot of banks to engage with crypto. So you might have seen, you know, with Bourdier, with society general, PKB, Bison Bank, Vidz.
00:17:27.996 - 00:18:04.154, Speaker A: But also, post finance is really exciting because it's a state owned bank. It is 30% of signum, no, Switzerland's population that can now engage with crypto. And you might ask why. Why would kind of, you know, an old school, state owned bank want to come, come on this journey with us? So the story is actually really interesting. In 2020, post Finance's profits were 129 million. In 2021, they were 223 million. And in 2022, they saw 300 million of assets from their bank being moved to Kraken, to binance, to OKX, to crypto exchanges.
00:18:04.154 - 00:18:45.946, Speaker A: So they knew that their clients were actually interested in this, and if they didn't get on board of get on board this wagon, they were going to just lose in the long run. And it was so kind of heartening to see some. To see kind of what you would think of as a bit of an old school bank to really see the numbers and understand that they have to come on the journey as well. So they worked with Signum. I mean, it was a longer journey because of course, there's a lot of steps and you're going within a large bank like postfinance. But eventually it was last year that we announced it and this year that it actually went live. And as opposed to dance customer, you basically can buy a lot of crypto and you can do this through signum.
00:18:45.946 - 00:19:26.070, Speaker A: I have more stories to tell, but no, what about, I'm good. How much time do I have? Two, three minutes. Cool. So I want to talk also about tokenization because we've been doing some really exciting things in this space. You might have seen Matterlabs, which is of course, the, the organization of Zksync, Zksync era and Fidelity, which you probably also have heard the name of. They decided to tokenize a part of their treasury into the Fidelity multi market fund and put this on Zksync era through signum. So matter labs is known again for Zksync era.
00:19:26.070 - 00:20:14.802, Speaker A: They have about 500 million sitting in their treasury, like through funds that they've raised. Fidelity International has more than 2.9 million customers around the world and has over 770 billion assets under management. And this money market fund in specific that we worked with is almost $7 billion deep. And matter labs to participate in it would normally have to withdraw these assets, make them into fiat, deposit them in the account, which means that, a, it's not super transparent because their investors can no longer see what the money is, and B, it's kind of taking value out of the blockchain ecosystem. It's putting it directly in Tratfi. So what we did was issue a token against the investment into the money market fund.
00:20:14.802 - 00:21:04.024, Speaker A: So all of these assets continue to be part of the TVL of Zksync era. It doesn't move away from there. And what's really important is that for all the people who are part of the ZK ecosystem, they can see this on chain, they can see on chain where these assets are what the positions are. And it really just increases the levels of accountability of transparency that you have towards your ecosystem. And being able to then for Zksync to be accountable for that is, I think, a big step forward for Daos and Dow treasuries while still benefiting from traditional financial assets that might be living off chain. So now I will stop. Do you guys have any questions for me? Yeah.
00:21:05.164 - 00:21:08.460, Speaker B: Do you build your core system in house?
00:21:08.652 - 00:21:12.944, Speaker A: No, we have a core banking system that you know, the rest of Switzerland. Is.
00:21:14.884 - 00:21:15.484, Speaker B: It.
00:21:15.604 - 00:21:40.084, Speaker A: Do you run it in house or in both? Both. So we have a. There are some protocols that we run in house, some that are external. And then the only thing more to say about this is that these are all like great stories to tell, but they are not quick things to happen. All of these things are a journey, and signum is very much on that journey. And thank you for letting me share some of that with you today.
00:21:41.784 - 00:21:42.844, Speaker B: Thank you, Ollie.
00:21:48.204 - 00:21:51.224, Speaker A: Any other questions? I'm happy to.
00:21:52.084 - 00:22:01.076, Speaker B: Yeah, if there are other questions, just please wait for the mic. But I think we're good.
00:22:01.220 - 00:22:02.244, Speaker A: Super. Thank you so much.
