00:00:00.760 - 00:00:16.274, Speaker A: All right, so let's get underway, and it's our pleasure to welcome Stephen Ryan from the University of Saskatchewan. And he will be talking to us about generalized hyperpolygons, meriamorphic Higgs bundles on curves and integrability.
00:00:18.014 - 00:01:09.706, Speaker B: Thanks. Thank Peter and Jeremy for inviting me to this very interesting and well organized conference. So what I'm going to be telling you about is joint work, mostly with Lauerush and Posnik. The main objects that I'm going to be telling you about are what we call hyperpolygons, or generalized hyperpolygons, and eventually their relationship to Higgs bundles. This talk will be more or less a broad overview, and this is all with a view to discussing integrable systems on these specific spaces. And there's actually a lot of contact, maybe serendipitously, with what Alex just spoke about in his talk. I mean, these spaces are, if you like examples, at least on the Higgs branch side of what he was speaking about.
00:01:09.706 - 00:01:51.344, Speaker B: And we'll also be making contact with the same integrable system that he was just speaking about at the end of his talk. So that works out nicely in some sense. The basic ingredient here are flag varieties. And so that's where I'll start, but I'll take the point of view of them similarly to Alex as quiver varieties. So, just to ensure we're on the same page, I want to start just with some mechanics, but quiver varieties, just to, again, make sure we're all squared up with this. And essentially you can understand the query variety by understanding just a single arrow in the diagram. So here I have an arrow pointing from one node to another.
00:01:51.344 - 00:02:27.524, Speaker B: Let's call those nodes u and v, and they're labeled by elements of a dimension vector. Just talk. So these are, these are, if you like, non negative integers, r sub u and r sub v. And once you have those labels in place, you can define a representation of the arrow in the usual way to be linear maps from cru to cr v. And I'm doing the same thing as Alex, which doing algebraic geometry over the complex numbers. And this is essentially ordinary quivers right here. But I'm interested in the Nakajima approach.
00:02:27.524 - 00:03:08.604, Speaker B: So for every arrow that you see, we're going to double it with an arrow going in the reverse direction. Now, I interpret the representation space as the cotangent space to the original Han space. And you can think of this as having two components, x and and y, the original label. And now y is labeling the backwards direction. And you should think of that as being a cotangent vector at X. Okay, now for each such doubled quiver, you can associate two functions in a natural way. I'll call them mu and nu.
00:03:08.604 - 00:03:50.544, Speaker B: They both go from the whole representation space of the quiver, which is really just direct sums of these t reps. And they go to direct sum of unitary li algebras summed over the nodes in our quiver. That's for mu. And then for new, we're summing over the nodes again, but now full gl the algebra. And of course you'll recognize the structure of these right away as moment maps. These are moment maps for natural change of basis group actions on these quiver representations. And because we're running over the nodes, we can build these moment maps node by node in a predictable way.
00:03:50.544 - 00:04:50.484, Speaker B: So again, let's take this model arrow here and work with it. So the component of the real moment map, mu, let's say contributed by the node u, is going to use this data theta, x and y in the following way, where this just means, where this asterisk just means conjugate transpose. And this doesn't morally live quite in the correctly algebra, but I've rescaled it appropriately and that makes no difference to us in the end. So you just pretend that this lives in the correct algebra, and then the complex valued moment map at that same node is just the product xy in this order. Okay, and again, you can build from this recipe, you can build the entire moment map in each case. Now once we have the quiver and its moment maps, we can construct an affine hypercalar variety. This is the Nakajima quiver variety of the quiver queue.
00:04:50.484 - 00:05:42.640, Speaker B: And so roughly speaking, I form a group by taking the product of all the general linear groups associated to the nodes. And roughly speaking, I want a quotient t rep q by the action of this group, of course, only roughly speaking, because this, this won't be a nice quotient in general, I want to take some kind of quotient. I'm going to take the hyperkalor quotient at a particular level that I'm going to call alpha. And alpha is in the center of the algebra associated to the group. And you'll notice that I actually replaced this with the compact group. I'm essentially taking a symplectic quotient, but with respect to these two moment maps. So what I've done is I fixed a level set of mu and the level set of mu.
00:05:42.640 - 00:06:35.964, Speaker B: I'm taking the level set of mu at zero, and I'm using this central element alpha to define the fiber of mu and I take their intersection and that'll be the hypercalar quotient. And if you like the I, j and k complex structures, I comes from mu and j and k come from the complex one. And I've also modded out by the trivial part of the group. But this is in general a recipe for constructing a Nakajima quiver variety. So to give you a quite a concrete example, and one that's very important to the objects that we want to motivate here, is just to consider a flag variety, which arises from choosing an a type quiver. And so this is an equa oriented a type quiver. Alex's was not, he was a bit fancier with his arrow directions, but as he said, it doesn't really matter in the end.
00:06:35.964 - 00:07:09.974, Speaker B: So what I've done is I've labeled this a type quiver. It has m nodes and I've labeled them starting from one and ending with some integer r. And so that means that M is less than or equal to r in this case. And then I have a strictly ascending sequence of integers in between. So I'm going to refer to the vector of these labels, this dimension vector, as r with an underline. And so if you like, that's some subset of the numbers one through r. But I ness I definitely want to have one and r.
00:07:09.974 - 00:07:57.854, Speaker B: So the Nakajima quiro variety is quite a standard example. Associated to this quiver is t star of the partial flag variety for this vector of integers. If I didn't have the red arrows then it would just be the partial flag variety. And this is all done with a generic choice of central element. So just to make this more precise, so the group here is product of these unitary groups, but I'm not taking the one at the end because I want a positive dimensional variety. I'm not taking the one for the highest dimension element. So that's how I've constructed the group.
00:07:57.854 - 00:09:11.402, Speaker B: And then the central element that I'm taking is going to come from all of the nodes except for the one with the largest label. And I'm taking all of these elements to be zero except for the one associated to the first node, the one labeled one, and that I can just regard as an element of the real numbers. And so I'm choosing this particular number to be non zero and I've also labeled the arrows in a consistent way, which will become important later. So there's a remaining ur action on this quiver because I didn't use the far left of the diagram and it comes with its own complex moment map, which is just the product of these two arrows here. And its image, based on the moment map conditions being in these particular fibers, forces this to be nil potent. And when the labeling is the complete flag, this is exactly the springer resolution that Alex mentioned in his talk. Now, I do want to use that ur action in defining a quiver variety.
00:09:11.402 - 00:09:55.644, Speaker B: And so it would kill a single a type quiver. But the game we can play is to interlace sufficiently many, let's say n, of these a type quivers. And this forms a so called star shaped quiver. So I have n different a type arms all interlaced at the center here. And they need not have the same flag, although it's common to take the same flag, but you don't have to. And these so called star shaped quivers, they appear in exactly the symplectic duality. They're a good example of things you can compute with symplectic duality in the sense of Alex's talk.
00:09:55.644 - 00:10:39.348, Speaker B: They come up in the Delin Simpson problem for sort of conjugacy classes. The conjugacy class additive problem and the approach to it using star shaped quivers is due to Crawley bovy. And for us, these will come up as spaces giving rise to hyperpolygons, which you'll see in a second. Now, unlike Alex's talk, we do allow loops and multi edges. So in fact I want to consider what's called a comet shaped query. So I want to attach g many loops to the center of this figure. And so if you want to see the comet, you can sort of change the way you draw the quiver a bit.
00:10:39.348 - 00:11:30.334, Speaker B: And so these were the arms trailing behind this part and hence the name comet. And just to keep the conventions sort of straight, we have a dimension vector for each of these a type arms. I'll call them r1 through rn. I fix a parameter alpha one through alpha n for each one that defines the associated partial flag variety. You can think of these as choices of kalar moduli if you like. And these individual arrows will have x and y labels as per usual, but the loops and each side solid loop gets doubled as per the Nakajima convention. I'll label these as a's and b's, a's for the original and b's for the cotangent directions.
00:11:30.334 - 00:12:20.622, Speaker B: Okay, so I'm going to restrict without any cost really to an sur action at the center, but I am going to use that action now to define a quotient. So I'm going to define the Nakogima quiro variety of the whole comet. But fortunately we don't need to start from scratch. I mean you could, but really this is reduction in stages. And what I have is a cotangent bundle of a partial flag variety for each of my n arms. And then the matrices, the a matrices on the loops, these are in SLRC, there are g of them and then t because we've doubled them. I'm really taking this whole, just simple cartesian product and taking a hypercalar quotient by the action at the center.
00:12:20.622 - 00:13:04.440, Speaker B: And I'm taking that at level zero, just remembering that the alphas are encoded in the partial flag varieties. So I want to examine this quotient a little bit more closely. So the asterisks here, the star is that central node in the quiver, and I have again n arms on the outside, they're indexed by I, and then the j's are indexing my loops. Now, you know, I don't really need to remember the M's. I'm just going to interact with the edges that are closest to the center. So I'll suppress those and just label these xi through xi and yi. And then the moment maps at the center look as follows.
00:13:04.440 - 00:14:07.194, Speaker B: So the real moment map in terms of this data is given by a sum through the arms of xi xi conjugate transpose, minus the opposite thing for y. The subscript zero is just, we need to remove the trace for this to be closer to being in the correct algebra. And then I have some through the loops of commutators of aj with its conjugate transpose and same with the b's, and then the corresponding complex moment map summed through the arms of x I y I. So you know, these are matrices of the right size. I'm going out on y I, coming back on x is something that's r by r. And then I have the commutators of the a, j's and bj's, and that gives me my, my moment maps. And I want to take the zero level set of these and mod out this big polytope by the sur action.
00:14:07.194 - 00:15:16.826, Speaker B: So I'm going to call this quotient x with various symbols around it to remember all the choices that we've made. And so it's really this intersection of level sets modded out. And this gives us a hypercalar variety whose dimension is related to the dimensions, the partial flag varieties, and to these matrices that we've added to the center. And if you like, when all the flags are complete, case that people are typically interested in the dimension gets this nice form. Now, you could ask, what do these, what do the points in this quiver variety represent? And they have a very nice geometric interpretation as polygons. Because really what's happening is, if I go back to the moment map conditions, I have a bunch of matrices, or really, if you like, vectors living in a vector space that have to close up based on being in the zero level set. So I have a sequence of vectors in the real algebra and in the complex algebra.
00:15:16.826 - 00:16:11.858, Speaker B: And so what I have is a pair of polygons that close the sides are given by the data on the quiver, and the number of sides you can count in terms of n and g. So this lives in Sur, or it's dual, and this lives in SlR. And so this is why these are referred to as hyper polygons. So this is really a modulized space of generalized hyperpolygons. And we'd say of length alpha, because the weights that we chose, the Kalara moduli, really determine the side lengths of these figures. So these were introduced in the earliest form by Kano, and then studied in more detail by Harada and Proudfoot and Gudino Mandini, and also by Jonathan Fisher and myself. So we were interested in the topology of this modular space when g is equal to zero.
00:16:11.858 - 00:17:09.740, Speaker B: And we showed that it, we proved that the Kolmology ring has hypercalarwon surjectivity and worked out the rational comology. Now, a general comment that nacogym equivariates are in some sense a toy model or finite dimensional analog of hitchens systems. Finite dimensional in the sense that Hitchen systems are, arise from an infinite dimensional affine space quoted by a gauge group, whereas these are arising from finite dimensional vectors, spaces. Both Nicojima quiver varieties and Hitchens systems are semi projective, or if you like, circle compact varieties, they have, you know, very similar topological considerations. They have a core that determines the cohomology or a nil potent cone. So, you know, they have a lot in common. But this analogy is somehow closest for the star shaped and comet shaped quiver varieties.
00:17:09.740 - 00:18:08.794, Speaker B: So here are the moment map equations. Again, I've just repackaged them in a slightly different way. I've put the x and a data together and the y and b data together on this side in the first equation. And the thing to notice about this equation is, first of all, what I see on the right in the complex equation is really the linearization of the key term in what defines the character variety of a genus, g, Riemann surface. So that's maybe the first clue as to what's happening here. And, you know, if you sort of stand back from this for a second, the failure of the polygon to close, if you think about just the x and a data alone, what's happening is the failure of this polygon to close is corrected by our choices of this in of this cotangent data, the y's and the b's. And that's very similar to the first so called Hitchen equation.
00:18:08.794 - 00:19:07.014, Speaker B: The curvature, the failure of a unitary connection on a bundle to be flat, is, if you like, corrected or measured by the choice of a Higgs field, phi, which is really cotangent data. So there's really an analogy between these equations. And then once you see that this is somehow the connection part and somehow the Higgs field part, well, here we have the connection part acting on the cotangent part. And so this second equation is really the analog of the other Hitchen equation. So there's one clue that there's more than just an abstract analogy going on, but you can construct, in fact, a Higgs field directly from the data of a hyperpolygon. So in general, I might take the upper half plane or the poincare disk and tile it with point Carre regular 4g gons. And what I might do is I might puncture it at end points.
00:19:07.014 - 00:19:49.244, Speaker B: And this is for genus two. Or I've already let the cat out of the bag by calling g genus. So, but if you let, you know, g be greater than equal to two, this is precisely what I want to do. But for zero and one, then you might just take the ordinary euclidean complex plane and puncture it for g equal to one. Maybe, you know, tile it by parallelograms and puncture it. And then I want to take this x and y data that was going around the center of the quiver and use this to define the residues of a Higgs field like object. The Higgs field, in the same sense is Miquella's talk, except that it's not everywhere holomorphic, it's meromorphic at these punctures.
00:19:49.244 - 00:20:49.272, Speaker B: But if you choose this, this g g of z, appropriately as a quasi periodic function, then this quotient will be well defined on the quotient of the upper half plane by the appropriate fuchsia group or quotient of c by the lattice for g equal to one, or just as is on p one, if g is equal to zero. In other words, we're defining well defined Higgs fields on Riemann surfaces for, let's say, the trivial rank r bundle on those surfaces. And of course, compactify these before you take the quotient. So we get compact treatment surfaces. And this is a meromorphic hazel that can be more than that. From the alphas, you can cook up parabolic weights in a reasonable way and actually get actually an embedding that respects the eye complex structure for parabolic case bundles, but not the j and k. These are different hypercalar structures.
00:20:49.272 - 00:21:28.220, Speaker B: So the Nakajima hypercalar structure is not just a pullback of the hitchen hypercalar structure. And I can justify that in different ways. And maybe a very formative example is to take a Deenkin diagram. Let's take the affine d four, and this is automatically, every flag here is complete. So let's take this for some generic choice of alpha for real numbers. And this is a non compact k three surface, but it fits into the Mackay cronheimer Nakajima correspondence. And in fact has a, it's a gravitational instant on.
00:21:28.220 - 00:22:01.124, Speaker B: It has a complete ale metric and it embeds into a corresponding parabolic hitchen system on p one with, with four punctures, which is also a surface. They actually have a complex meaning, dimension two over c. They actually have the same dimension. And what they differ in is a co dimension zero sub variety. And that happens to be one point per Hitchen fiber. And it's exactly, the Hitchen section is what they differ in. And the difference in the hypercalar structure is you can measure using the hyperkala metrics.
00:22:01.124 - 00:22:39.920, Speaker B: The variety coming from the star shaped quiver has an ale metric. That means that it's decaying to. The Euclidean metric, as you go to infinity is order four in some radial direction. But for the Hitchens system, it's alg, so it only decays with order two. And that's a very recent result, by the way, of Mazzeo or Fredrickson, Mazzeo, Svoboda and Weiss. And the co dimension grows as you consider other configurations of quiver. And by the way, if you take alpha to be zero, which non generic here, then you will get a symplectic singularity.
00:22:39.920 - 00:23:22.016, Speaker B: In fact, it's a kleinian singularity. Now, the last thing I want to talk about is integrable systems. And the point of view here is somewhat similar to Alex's. In fact, I'm going to talk about the same integrable system as he did, a galfoncetylene type integrable system. But for those of you who are used to that, in the compact case, this is the non compact version of it. But really, you know, I want to look at this reduction map that took us from this big product to hyper polygon space. And, you know, these come with exactly the integrable system that Alex had discussed, which is really, you know, appropriately selected matrix and matrix invariants.
00:23:22.016 - 00:24:12.644, Speaker B: There's a standard Li Poisson system on this Li algebra. And along this map, you know, all of the invariants for these descend. And we want to understand if this remains an integral system on the quotient. So, you know, if I take, let's, let's make the assumption that we have see many complete arms and the remainder of the arms are minimal, just one, and r as sort of as short as possible. So we have some mix of these two types of arms. And if I just for the moment focus on the, the complete kind, well, you know, there are certain blocks of matrices which are contributing exactly, if you like, Hamiltonians, for this, these Galphin settlement systems. So each of these blocks contributes, each of these k by k blocks gives you basically k invariants which you can interpret as traces.
00:24:12.644 - 00:25:31.322, Speaker B: Now, I can add up those invariants that I get for each of the c many complete flags. And then for the minimal flags, I have a certain number that you can count in a similar, similar fashion. And then I can also count basically the cotangent coordinates in the SLRC part. And so I can take this tally, and this is sort of the maximal number of invariants that I can have. And now if you roll up your sleeve and sort of work with the sur action directly on that big product and understand certain normal forms that matrices around the center of the quiver are put into, you understand which of these invariants now no longer become algebraically dependent, get fixed, or basically become functions of one another. And so you can find a, so Lauer and I find a function for any r and g, g and c, that is essentially computing the number of these invariants that are no longer free. And then when you subtract these from the total, you find that you always get half the dimension of the modulized space.
00:25:31.322 - 00:26:28.804, Speaker B: And so what remains is an integrable system, which you can roughly say is of Galphin settlein type. But what's interesting about this integrable system is that it doesn't see, it embeds into hitchens system as a sub integrable system, but it does not see the complex geometry of the algebraic curve. It's purely a representation theoretic construction. And you get a variety of these for different combinations of c diff, different combinations of complete and minimal flags. So you get a hierarchy of these within the Hitchen system, and the work doesn't stop here. Here we've investigated these hyper polygons from other points of view, such as mirror symmetry, construction of triple brains taking advantage of the hypercalar structure. But for the purposes of this, I really just wanted to tell you about this integrable system structure and how it relates to the hitchen system, and that's everything.
