00:00:01.130 - 00:00:07.470, Speaker A: So welcome back after the break. And now, welcome to the stage Fatima Chirazi from Anoma.
00:00:17.800 - 00:01:10.920, Speaker B: I'm going to talk about privacy today, but I hope the title will convey the message that I want you all to take home. It was inspired by no man is an island. I guess you guessed that. And I wanted to explain that privacy is complicated and that we should collaborate more together for better privacy. The talk is going to be about I'm going to have some introduction on what privacy is, why I think it's complicated. I have a bit of a review of existing privacy enhancing solutions in the blockchain space. I'm going to talk about what type of privacy they provide and how they could be improved.
00:01:10.920 - 00:02:01.770, Speaker B: The talk is not about saying that any solution is bad, but just to explain to you how it's complicated. And it's important to understand that complexity. In the end of the talk, I'll explain what the problems are from my point of view and what we can do. So why should we care about privacy? I assume you all care about privacy. That's why you're here. It allows people to choose what type of information is revealed about themselves. And it's important because knowledge about personal information allows abuse, it allows discrimination, it prevents people from participating in the society freely in a democratic way.
00:02:01.770 - 00:02:32.704, Speaker B: So it's important. Why is it complicated? I had to add a picture of a bicycle here in Amsterdam. And the point here is to show that even if that lock is the best lock that humankind can make, this is not secure. I hope you all agree. Even I could lift this bicycle and run away with it. And the lock is amazing. Let's assume the lock was done by, I don't know, NASA, whatever, the best people on Earth.
00:02:32.704 - 00:03:22.384, Speaker B: But this is just security is more complicated than just having a solution, a very secure solution. Generally, security deals with confidentiality, it deals with integrity and authentication, while privacy deals more with our social interactions, our activities, because it's hiding in personal information. So it's a bit more complicated than some security properties. And it's important to look at solutions from a multidimensional way. In this picture, you see that one dimension is the lock, the other dimension is what is the bicycle lock too. And that part is completely ignored. So if you just look at solutions from one dimension, a lot of them seem amazing, but the reality is they are not really secure.
00:03:22.384 - 00:04:02.336, Speaker B: It's just an illusion of security. And to add also why I think privacy is quite complex is it is connected very much to our daily lives. It cannot be achieved in an isolated way like security can. A lot of privacy is about hiding your activities among activities of other users or even fake activities that you could make up. But this is very expensive and it's very difficult. It's very cumbersome. For example, we are all awake at certain times of the day, waking up at 03:00 a.m.
00:04:02.336 - 00:05:06.734, Speaker B: And sending a message, just to have a fake message sent. This is cumbersome. And what is to be added to privacy is also it's connected to our family and friends, and they might not care about privacy that much as we do, and they might find this too expensive or cumbersome. So that makes, from my point of view, privacy even a bit more complicated and difficult to achieve than security in blockchain. Normally in blockchain, at least traditionally, in the past, blockchains were supposed to be or people thought of them as private, but what they really were, like bitcoin or ethereum, is they had pseudonymity. So you have accounts that are not associated to your personal identity, but it is a single account, and everything is transparent. The problem with that is, if you use it carefully or no one is looking, it could be okay, we don't know who Satoshi Nakamoto is, and it's synonymous.
00:05:06.734 - 00:05:42.274, Speaker B: It's not great privacy, but we still don't know. Because it was early days, no one was really looking. There was not that much activity. But as soon as you start to have activity with a pseudonymous account, this is going to become sooner or later broken. An example of that is you can have an account in bitcoin ethereum. As soon as you send something to Kraken and you have KYC and your passport picture or something, game over. You send it to someone that the FBI can get to, or some government.
00:05:42.274 - 00:06:15.070, Speaker B: Again, game over. So there is a lot of ways where maybe if you do one transaction, pseudonymity is okay. If you want to do it on a daily basis a lot, it's almost impossible to be enough. So what we have in traditional blockchains, we cannot really count on the privacy. You can get lucky. Maybe no one is looking, but the chances are, if you use it a lot, you're not going to stay private. So I hope that I have convinced you that pseudonymity is not a great idea for privacy.
00:06:15.070 - 00:06:58.218, Speaker B: Before I start to look into existing solutions, I wanted to explain to you what the attacker model or the adversary is, because there is no from my point of view, there is no absolute private. Like, it's not zero or one. You're always secure or private against a certain definition of what the adversary or the attacker is. And the example of this is like the door. The door here is secure if you lock it against some sort of adversary. Is it secure against a tanker? No, it's not going to be secure against every type of threat. And depending on how good the door is, it will keep out different types of adversaries.
00:06:58.218 - 00:08:07.090, Speaker B: So it's important to understand that complexity. One thing to take into account is who your adversary is in terms of how widespread they are. Is it someone who just locally has access to a transaction? Is it someone who can have access to everything? Is it the NSA? So the reach of the adversary is different. The other question is whether the adversary is poor or resourceful. How much are they willing to spend, how much money are they going to spend to attack you? Or how much money are they going to spend to analyze information to find you? And something that is very relevant here in blockchain is memory. This is often not talked about in security and privacy circles, but I think it's very relevant for blockchain because a lot of the privacy solutions here are about short term memory and long term memory, people consider things that are not on the blockchain to be private, but the reality is you're just not having it there. For someone who has a very short term memory, So someone who cannot remember what happened yesterday, of course, if it's not on the blockchain, then fine.
00:08:07.090 - 00:09:05.030, Speaker B: But if someone can remember anything that has happened, then just the fact that it's not on the blockchain is not going to be enough. So whether your privacy definition is not being on the blockchain or not, or your privacy definition is never being anywhere on the internet, that is a distinction. And the last one is being a passive adversary or active. So you see there's a lot of nuances in what the threat model is. So let's go to the first solution that I found. I have never used many of these, and again, I want to emphasize that this is not critique on any single solution, but rather really showing to you the complexity. So mixers, the idea of a mixer is that instead of sending a transaction directly from a sender to a receiver, you're sending it a bit around.
00:09:05.030 - 00:09:48.130, Speaker B: You send it to fake accounts that you created and they're sending these transactions around until it goes to the receiver. And hopefully no one knows that all of these fake accounts in between were your own. They will think that these were other people and it will somehow disconnect the direct connection between the sender and the receiver of a transaction. It is private for a very, very weak adversary. So your adversary has to be really weak for you to consider this pretty private because maybe one time you can do this. But if you do it a couple of times with chain analysis, this is not so difficult to break. But it's one solution.
00:09:48.130 - 00:10:18.502, Speaker B: Another solution are off chain transactions. The idea is that you have some sort of settlement on the main chain. All the microtransactions happen off chain on a different network. So here I have examples. Like Litig Network on Bitcoin. You can have settlement between two users. They lock 200 worth of Bitcoin, then they go off bitcoin.
00:10:18.502 - 00:10:49.270, Speaker B: They do a lot of transactions back and forth, which is not recorded on Bitcoin. And in the end they come back and settle the rest. What is left over. So what you achieve here is that on the blockchain, on the Bitcoin blockchain, there is really not much information about all of the activities between these two people. But that's really what it is. You're not really private against a strong adversary. You're private against the adversary that only can see Bitcoin and that's it like their computer only sees what happens on Bitcoin.
00:10:49.270 - 00:11:29.506, Speaker B: And here I wrote in the problems that a local adversary that sees what is happening between these two sender and receiver can easily find out the connection between the sender and the receiver. And another point is, and I didn't bring this up in the previous slide, but is timing correlation. This is quite big in the privacy community. You identify people based on timing. It's metadata. There is a famous quote from a guy in NSA who was saying we kill people based on metadata. We don't need to know just the fact on when someone is sending what.
00:11:29.506 - 00:12:04.762, Speaker B: If you do it long enough, you can identify based on who is awake. When you have activity, you can identify who is having a relationship with someone else. So timing correlation in this case is still possible. Another solution is Monero, which is a very elegant solution. The idea is instead of having one signature that is identifying the identity of the sender, you have group signatures. So you have eight people who sign something. So each one of these eight people could be the signer.
00:12:04.762 - 00:12:52.526, Speaker B: The signature does not identify which one of the eight people has signed. This is okay if you do it once and if the combination of these eight people also makes sense. But I can give you an example, maybe there's eight people, seven of them are from Vietnam and one of them is from Switzerland. The receiver is also from Switzerland. It's not so difficult to guess that probably the guy who sent from the one Swiss person in the eight people is the one that signed the transaction. So is it a bad solution? No, but is it perfect? The group size is too small. Depending on the diversity of the signers, depending on how often this has been used, this can reveal information.
00:12:52.526 - 00:13:49.762, Speaker B: The other point about this, different than the Lightning network, the off chain transactions here, the whole history is on the blockchain, on the Monero blockchain. So you can look really into this, look at the signers of each one of these group signatures and at some point it should be possible to identify some people in Monero. Also you do not hide any timing signatures. So again, based on activities, based on when you're awake, when the receiver is awake, there is a lot of conclusions that one can make. The next solution is MimbleWimble that has been deployed Grin, Beam and Litecoin recently. Also the idea with MimbleWimble is that you aggregate transactions. It's very similar, like going to a restaurant and when you pay, you put all of your money together and then pay the waiter at once.
00:13:49.762 - 00:14:29.186, Speaker B: The waiter doesn't know which money came from who. You're aggregating transactions from different people and then just give the collected transaction to the blockchain. Which is cool in the sense that it's also reduced transactions that are recorded on the blockchain. So it's a scalability also solution. The problem that MimbleWimble has though is that collecting these transactions or collecting these bills has to be done in a way that the waiter is not seeing them. If the waiter sees who is putting money on the pile then really you're not achieving much. And the same is with Maimble Wemble.
00:14:29.186 - 00:15:18.714, Speaker B: The network layer where these transactions are collected has to be designed well. And if these transactions are just broadcasted, which they are in some cases, then you're secure against someone who has a very short memory and does not remember what was broadcasted and only sees what is on the blockchain. But you're not secure against someone who can remember oh, I have seen these transactions before and then later on they were added up and put on the blockchain. The last solution I have to review is Zcash. It is also very elegant, very nice solution. Zcash uses zero knowledge proofs and the idea is that the sender receiver and the amount of the transaction are not visible. It has a transparent and a shielded mode.
00:15:18.714 - 00:16:10.270, Speaker B: Basically in the transparent mode you're very similar like other blockchains in the shielded mode the sender receiver address and amount of transaction are hidden, which is very cool. So I really like Zcash though there is still some problems that also Zcash has. One is network layer. When the timing that a sender is sending something and the receiver is having any connection to Zcash, this is not hidden. What Zcash suggests is using Tor but it is not integrated in the protocol itself. The other problem is that there is no hiding of timing signatures. One can have transparent funds transparent and then put them in the shielded pool and then remove them again.
00:16:10.270 - 00:17:10.130, Speaker B: And there is no delaying between these. So based if I have two users, Alice and Bob, they both shield, then they do the transactions they unshield every time they do that same time at some point it's very clear that these two people are exchanging transactions with each other and this is again not so difficult to such conclusions are not so difficult to make. So what are the problems? The main problem I see is that often in the blockchain world people equate using a tool as we have solved privacy and it's just not that easy. If you use tomato, you don't have bolognese. There is more complexity, there is more details that you have to have to take into account. If you just use draining signatures or just knowledge proofs, this is not solving the solution only. You have to look into the whole dimensions on other details that you're adding.
00:17:10.130 - 00:17:56.922, Speaker B: The other problem that exists is that there is not really a standard for threat models or solutions. All of the solutions that I presented to you, they were really designed for different types of adversaries, for different types of needs. But these are not really standardized. So for a user, like, let's say, my mother or my dad, who are not privacy experts, if they would use any of these without really understanding what the difference between these solutions are. So I think we need more standards for both threat model and for solutions. Because otherwise for the user, it will be very, very difficult to know what solution to use. And the last part is that solutions are not compatible or complementary.
00:17:56.922 - 00:18:41.002, Speaker B: A lot of solutions are solving very nicely sometimes one part of the problem, but then when new people come on board, they do not build upon that but create something new. And I understand that it's cool to create new things. It's not so cool to go fix other things or complement other things. But we have to remember, as an adversary, you attack the weakest link always. If you want to get into a room, you don't go and try to crack open the most difficult door that the room has. You will go through the window which is open. So ignoring the dimensions and solving something is just giving an illusion of privacy.
00:18:41.002 - 00:19:41.954, Speaker B: But for an adversary, you're not really doing much. This is more of an illusion of having solved the problem. So what do I think we should do? First of all, we should identify complexity. We should acknowledge all the problems there are the needs that the users have, the whole stack, whether it's wallets and I wanted to add information about wallets, but I thought that's a whole new presentation, it would be too much for 20 minutes to talk about. So wallets, the blockchain, like so many parts of the whole stack, have to be taken into consideration. The second part that I think is important is to have privacy as a goal and not have using a tool as the goal. The same is again, when we talked about tomato and bolognese, the question is, do you want to make bolognese or do you just want to use the tomato? And this is something that you have to have in mind.
00:19:41.954 - 00:20:36.340, Speaker B: So privacy should be the real goal. The other point that I think is important to improve the privacy of the whole space is simplicity and understandability. So we need to make solutions as simple as possible. We also need to make them as understandable as possible for users. The next point is privacy loves company. Privacy is often about hiding in the crowd, hiding among other transactions of other users, hiding your identity in the forest of all other users. And that's why it should be easy for users to participate in these tools, because the more users you have, the more privacy the rest of the users are going to have.
00:20:36.340 - 00:21:37.750, Speaker B: And the last part, which I hope is one of the big messages that you're going to take home is collaboration. I would really wish for more collaboration between blockchain, I mean, projects in general, but definitely privacy blockchain that care about blockchain, projects that care about privacy. It's important to have compatibility with each other, to work on standards, to improve things. And the last slide is about the project that I'm working in the moment. How is Anoma trying to improve? Sorry for the red. I hope it's not too much of a contrast compared to so what is Anoma trying to do? We are trying to work on a multi or we are working on a multi asset student pool. The idea here is to have to allow users to use similar technology like Zcash does, but with multiple assets, so allow users to also enjoy interoperability.
00:21:37.750 - 00:22:40.790, Speaker B: The next point that we are working on is design of incentives that also take into account privacy. So normally, incentive design focuses many on economics, on incentivization in terms of security, but for us, privacy is a big factor there too. We are working also on end to end privacy, and this is looking into privacy for the whole stack. And this is something that also came up in a presentation before. We are using the IBC standard and are working on privacy bridges and mainly to allow users from different types of chains like Penumbra, Namada, Anoma and Ethereum, all to be in the anonymity set, which basically makes the forest bigger and makes the crowd bigger and heights users more. So that's it. I hope that you all take home that we should collaborate more and we should get into the complexity of privacy.
00:22:40.790 - 00:22:41.660, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:22:43.070 - 00:22:47.920, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Before we release you from this stage, do you have any questions?
00:22:51.220 - 00:22:53.650, Speaker B: Was everything too difficult or too easy?
00:22:56.900 - 00:23:02.870, Speaker C: Yes. Could you maybe highlight some of the end to end privacy things that you're doing?
00:23:03.400 - 00:23:04.128, Speaker B: Privacy?
00:23:04.224 - 00:23:14.072, Speaker C: Yeah, within the end to end layer, like networking and mempool and stuff like that. I did not hear you mentioned that you're also addressing privacy end to end.
00:23:14.206 - 00:24:13.040, Speaker B: End to end, yes. So what we are looking into is looking into the network layer privacy and integrating it in our technology. We are also looking at privacy at wallets, which is basically where the users are interfacing the most with the blockchain. And something that we are also looking into is delays, which is the timing signature that I was talking about. So, yeah, we are trying to really look into starting from the user on the blockchain, anything on the way. There are places where information can be leaked. I'm I guess I'm just interested in how does the private bridge design work? That's a good question.
00:24:13.040 - 00:24:27.380, Speaker B: I have not been involved with the private do we have Chris here? Maybe you want to because I have a private bridge in mind, but it's not the one the other design that do you want to.
00:24:39.130 - 00:25:58.878, Speaker D: Give a quick answer here? So, the tricky part in private bridges in the IBC context is balancing these competing goals of providing fault isolation, which IBC has in ICS 20 by metering supply transferred across a bridge. So it's like, basically, one blockchain has an account on the other blockchain, and you can stop the other blockchain from sending back more assets or other kinds of state transitions that you didn't originally send to it or didn't originally authorize it to do. But as soon if you have, say, zcash style sapling circuits on multiple chains and just do zero knowledge proofs for your IBC cross chain transactions, that's fine, except that now you no longer have a way to meter supplies, you don't have this fault isolation. So in order to preserve this fault isolation, we need some kind of encrypted computation that allows us to keep this counter, say, of how much supply of a particular asset has gone from chain A to chain b while not revealing it, because if we revealed at each transaction, that would, of course, break privacy. So we're specifically looking into a solution that uses basically limited additive homomorphic encryption. So when you perform a cross chain shielded transfer, you can add to this encrypted counter and test this encrypted counter. When you perform a transfer in the other direction never goes negative, meaning that more assets are never sent back than you originally sent.
00:25:58.878 - 00:26:09.570, Speaker D: But without revealing anything about the value of this counter or the value of individual transactions, So it's mostly a cryptography problem to try and get these two constraints that we want to satisfy.
00:26:10.310 - 00:26:11.300, Speaker B: Thank you.
00:26:19.020 - 00:26:23.220, Speaker A: I think we all said thank you very much. Once again, a round of applause for Tampa Fatima.
