00:00:02.490 - 00:01:03.646, Speaker A: While crypto has been around for well over ten years now, the most popular apps until the last year have been centralized crypto exchanges. And these centralized exchanges, like finance and Coinbase, do millions and millions in trade volume daily, but also require users to submit personal details like their name, email, and even their physical address. Now this might seem harmless at first glance, but consider what might happen if someone hacks into the exchange database to find that you own a large amount of crypto. Now a criminal can launch a five dollar wrench attack. This is a reference to a meme and another dark joke in the crypto community that all one has to do is buy a five dollar wrench to hold someone hostage, since crypto assets can really very easily be transferred from a wallet to another wallet. And sure, maybe this idea of getting hacked and held hostage sounds far fetched, but the truth is, it's possible. And that's a very scary way to live your life, with your data privacy and safety dependent on an exchange's operational security to protect the honeypot of data they hold.
00:01:03.646 - 00:01:51.806, Speaker A: Especially when you know that so many exchanges have been hacked over the last few years, Cucoin, blockfly, finance, just to name a few. So the key takeaway today is that with DFI, this enormous problem is solved. And why? Because the best way to protect your data is to not allow it to be collected in the first place. And as you've learned in previous DFI 101 episodes, all that's required in DFI is a compatible wallet like Metamask to connect. Using such a wallet reveals nothing about you other than your public wallet address, which means your secrets safe with you and with nobody else you've been watching DFI 101. Do be sure and check out the other videos in the series, and subscribe to the channel so you don't miss the new videos as they drop. And above all, stay safe out.
00:01:51.806 - 00:01:59.770, Speaker A: There's.
