00:00:03.610 - 00:01:01.630, Speaker A: All right, perfect. Thank you all for joining. This is an ask me anything on the cross domain mev paper. You have here myself, Alex, Alejo, and Phil, three co authors of the cross domain MEV paper, and we are all at Flash schwalz research. So the point of organizing this soon after we released the paper was for anyone that read through it and had any questions on stuff that was mentioned there to give at least an hour or more for people to ask their questions to the authors of the paper or anything else that has come to your mind that you'd like to ask us. Before we start, I'd just maybe like to point out this is still a work in progress paper as was mentioned in its release. So there are still, of course, elements that need to be polished and things that need to be looked at more.
00:01:01.630 - 00:01:47.950, Speaker A: That's also partly why it's great to have an AMA, just because a lot of the time, people from external who didn't write the paper or who weren't involved in the research process have a lot of insights that are hard for someone who has been so deep into it to find. So I'm not putting any pressure on any of you to give those insights, but generally, I find it helpful to get questions. The last thing I will mention is there are no stupid questions. Please ask whatever you'd like to. This is open, and generally we want people to understand what was written there. And so if you don't understand, then we'd be happy to explain it to you. All of that being said, if it's really clearly explained there and it's about you reading a definition, then we will point you to that definition.
00:01:47.950 - 00:02:25.258, Speaker A: All right. I'm sharing a screen where I guess I'll write down questions if people pose their questions. The main point of doing that is if someone joins the call midway that they're able to see what we're talking about. It's not a huge benefit, but I thought it'd be useful. I need to find where the chat is, which I don't know where I can find that right now, but as soon as I find it, I'm ready to get questions. You're also welcome to unmute yourself and ask questions as well. All right, maybe one thing we can do.
00:02:25.258 - 00:02:50.354, Speaker A: There's a hand raising system in here. You guys might be familiar with it. So if you want to raise your hand when you have a question and we can unmute you that way. If you don't want to speak and you want to post your question in the chat, please do that as well. Hello and Phil, if you can see the chat, because I can't, please then point questions that are in there. Oh, there it is. Perfect.
00:02:50.354 - 00:03:44.554, Speaker A: All right, questions if now we can speak for a little bit, and then if people have stuff on their mind, they can come at any point all right, so for everyone who has joined here, you joined without questions so far. All right, cool. Well, we can talk a bit about the paper. Alejo and Phil, how do you feel about that? Sweet. Shall I pull it up, maybe? Would that be helpful? Sounds great. You want to go through? Yeah. All right.
00:03:44.554 - 00:04:26.210, Speaker A: So again, if there are any questions, please send them. Cool. So this paper came about as we were looking at mev across layer twos. So the idea was to explore mev on other chains and other quote unquote domains. And as we dove into that research, we found this topic as cross domain mev as something interesting. So maybe first the title. We use domains instead of chains just because we want to generalize that concept of interactions between two domains, more than just chains.
00:04:26.210 - 00:05:23.354, Speaker A: So we want domains to include layer twos, which arguably you can consider them as their own chains, but they might also not be their own chains, as well as other types of domains. So a centralized exchange could be a domain, for example. So we wanted our definition to encompass these different places where you would have activity, where you could do cross domain mev between these different places and they're not necessarily changed. So maybe that's one thing to know. And so the general structure of the article is, I guess its main contribution, first of all, is to formalize cross domain mev and then is using that formalization to arrive at some understanding or some early results of the impact of activity. That would be cross domain extraction of extractable value. So early on, we define different terms.
00:05:23.354 - 00:06:11.130, Speaker A: So what is a domain, what is a sequencer, what's an action? And we also motivate why we're looking at this. And so we give examples of multidomain arbitrators. So between here, ethereum and polygon and matic and wmatic wrapped matic, I presume. And here, between three different domains, ethereum, BSc and polygon. We're using data from Western Gate, which is flashballs hackathon winner at Heathglobal, who's been done amazing work. And this data is all public and you can go on their website and see that live. So after we motivate this and we give a few definitions, I'm not going to go through the definitions unless Alijo or Phil, you think it'll be helpful.
00:06:11.130 - 00:07:18.826, Speaker A: We use these tools so these different definitions to express what mev is or to define mev. So first we introduced the concept of reachable states, which is pretty I assume some of you are familiar with it, but using that concept of reachable states, we're able to define mev as the state where your balance is the highest. I'm simplifying things a little bit. So now that we have all these tools, we start by redefining the original definition of mev, I would say, or the single domain definition of extractable value using these tools and using these terms. And I should mention importantly, a lot of these definitions were introduced in a paper called Clockwork Finance, where Phil is a co author. And there's also Mahimna Kalkar and Kushal Babel that introduces these definitions. So we essentially reuse definitions that were introduced before, and we try to build on top of these definitions.
00:07:18.826 - 00:08:23.858, Speaker A: There are slight differences to it, and Alejo can go a little bit into that. He also wrote an article on it called on the Formalization of Mev that you're welcome to check out, and we can put a link in there. So now that we have a definition of single domain extractable value given these tools, so here we have extractable value is a difference of balance, right? So Bi and Bi here represent the balance in a domain I. And then the terms that extractable value takes would be the player, the state of the system, and the sequences of valid actions that are applied on the state S. And those valid actions applied on the state S bring the new state of the system to S prime. And so what we're essentially saying here is the extractable value, not maximal extractable value, is the balance difference for a player in state S prime versus the initial balance in state S, essentially. So this was extractable value.
00:08:23.858 - 00:09:17.510, Speaker A: We then defined maximal extractable value, saying it is whenever that balance is at its maximum. So the state where that balance is at its maximum for a single player, for a particular player. So that way we obtain a somewhat formal definition of mev for a particular player given the state of a domain. And again, this is single domain maximal extractable value. Now that we have this, now that we have this tool and this definition, especially now that we also define not only that it's single domain and so in domain I, but also that given our definition, we can consider actions that are in a separate domain. So here, for example, we look at the mev in domain I. So given that we're looking at the balances in i, but we're looking at actions that can only be taken in J, j being another domain.
00:09:17.510 - 00:09:47.662, Speaker A: And so using this and using this formulation of mev, we're able to then define two domain mev. In particular, we're trying to understand whether there's a difference between two domain mev put together in a way, and single domain mev from each of these domains, which I'm going to talk about a little bit more later. By the way, Phil and Alejo, if you want to stop me anywhere, feel free to no.
00:09:47.716 - 00:09:52.400, Speaker B: Do note that there's some questions on the chat whenever you want to address them.
00:09:53.590 - 00:10:19.830, Speaker A: Okay, perfect. No questions. Okay. I'll start with 33. GWe is one of the attentions here to identify which chain flashbots should give the most focus MultiChain relays. This is not the attention of this paper. This paper is trying to formalize the idea of cross domain mev.
00:10:19.830 - 00:11:18.780, Speaker A: So I'm going to go into an interesting result that we use, given this formalization. Of course, given this result, this result will present itself more acutely in domains where there's a lot of mev, very roughly, at least intuitively. So it does give an intuition for where an effect that we're going to talk about a little later will kind of show itself or show its head first. This in particular paper does not mention where flashbots should expand or can expand, or where other relays should be built. That was 433. Francesco, a bit of a lazy open question. Do you see any mitigation to centralization? If cross domain mev were to prove to be much higher than single domain mev? I'm struggling to see what could be done since we can control the design of one chain PBS, but we can never hope to control the design of the whole multidomain space.
00:11:18.780 - 00:12:10.470, Speaker A: I'm trying to understand your question. When you mean centralization, you mean centralization of the sequencers, right? That sequencers on different domains would be the same people or that the sets of sequencers would slowly and slowly overlap with one another. I assume that's what you mean here. It is something that was an argument that was put forward in endgame the article by Vitalik. And so I'm going to introduce that result a little bit later if you don't have more questions. But is there a solution to it? It is an open question, you're right, and somewhat of a lazy question, but I think it's a good one to ask. I think there might be a way to design a market such that the block building or the sequencing is not centralized.
00:12:10.470 - 00:13:04.606, Speaker A: I don't think we've achieved such a design yet. Maybe Phil and Alejo, if you have more comments on that. It's definitely something we're very interested in. I do know the Ethereum Foundation and other researchers from other organizations are working hard on even if the building market or the sequencing market is centralized, how can we maintain censorship resistance and how can we firewall that centralization to only this and not to block validation? And that's the point in Vitalik's endgame article. But adley you would want building to be decentralized as well. And I think what's hard here to some extent is building is inherently computationally intensive, at least intuitively it is. And so there's a mode there that might be hard to fight against and it's prone to information, asymmetry for example.
00:13:04.606 - 00:13:39.062, Speaker A: So I think you can certainly design systems where block building is easier to do, for example, to the point where it might be commoditized. I would say that people working on fair ordering to some extent are looking towards this direction. So in a way there is a fair ordering algorithm for how transactions are added and how transactions are ordered. And so you can just run an ordering node. You don't have to do crazy things or bid the most profitable block. You just run the same algorithm. That's an ordering algorithm.
00:13:39.062 - 00:13:57.290, Speaker A: So one could imagine that there could be such a system that intuitively, again, would be inherently more inefficient because the ordering wouldn't be the optimal ordering, but at the same time, it would maybe allow us to decentralize block building. I hope that answers.
00:13:57.450 - 00:15:22.882, Speaker B: So if I can add to that, I believe the challenge Francesco is highlighting here has more to do with the fact that in the cross chain domain, we don't have control of the design as we could have in a single domain. So say, okay, perhaps we're happy with PBS and we can come up with a way to do the building in a way that's sufficiently decentralized or whatever. But then how does that interplay with a cross domain where there can be many other chains with their own different designs that do not? So then the question is, with all these domains and this MEB that only appears in the cross domain settings, how to minimize concentration effects? So that's my reading of the question. And yeah, I think it's a very difficult open problem. We are starting to think about it more actively at Flashbots, but we have some hopes that a marketplace can be built. But yeah, that's as far as we have right now. It's a super good question and perhaps one that needs to be solved if we want to build a really open economy in a multi domain setting.
00:15:22.882 - 00:15:27.580, Speaker B: So, yeah, thanks for that question, Francesco. I think it's a very important one.
00:15:32.230 - 00:16:04.410, Speaker A: Phil, do you have anything to add? No, I think that was very thorough. Amazing. All right, Francesco, if that doesn't answer your question or if we got it wrong, please say it. I'll keep going until there's more questions. Yes? I assume that's a yes. You can still see my screen.
00:16:06.060 - 00:16:10.990, Speaker B: Oh, sorry, I couldn't hear you. But yeah, we can still see your screen.
00:16:13.360 - 00:17:14.876, Speaker A: Okay, so continuing here, we now have this two domain mev definition. So you can see here in the exponent and the index or indices, we now take domains I and J for a player P and for a state S of the system. And the state S that we're taking is a general state of the system and we're looking at taking the maximum of the extractable value of each. Right. So if you remember the extractable value equation that we have earlier, and we're looking at all possible actions both in I and in J. One thing to note here that is interesting is this pricing function here. So to be able to reason about a maximum here that are balances ultimately, so it's a value, you need to somewhat convert the assets in one domain to the assets of another domain.
00:17:14.876 - 00:18:27.608, Speaker A: If you have like, optimism, ETH, and RBE at the end of your calculation, you need a way to reason about that balance as a unified number instead of two different numbers. So that pricing function allows us to do that. And there's a lot of really nifty things that this pricing function represents and quantifies as well, which we think are very interesting. So now that we have this little formula, we look back at the example above, the figures one and two, where there were arbitrages between ethereum and polygon, ethereum, polygon and BSc. And we kind of apply this formula there, including looking at a case where, for example, the pricing function would be such that the cost of wrapmatic would be at a significant discount to matic that's on ethereum. For some reason that's maybe due to bridges and we can see how the profit is still positive, it just changes. So this pricing function is really interesting because it could to some extent give us a lot of information about the market structure and how markets will unfold because everyone will have their own pricing function.
00:18:27.608 - 00:19:55.860, Speaker A: In a way, there's a little section about this a little later that I will shout out and talk about this forever. So now that we have a two domain case and that we're relatively happy with the formalization, we generalize to n domain case and so this is the formula for us to do that. So here you have a pricing function that convert from each domain back to a particular domain and so we obtain this general formula for N domain maximal extractable value. So why this is interesting and we're getting to the point that Francesco kind of hinted at in his question is that in a way, with this formalization now we can compare the mev by looking at all the actions that one can take on both inj at once versus, quote unquote, local maximizations. And you can split this into three cases, which are these three bullet points here. And if it turns out that the mev, by looking at both domains at once in terms of the actions that one can take, is superior to the local maximizations, then you found an incentive for the sequencers of inj to collude with one another. Because what you're essentially saying is hey, if we collaborate with one another, we'll make more money than if we were doing our mev optimization independently.
00:19:55.860 - 00:20:56.682, Speaker A: So if it's true often enough. And what that tells us is that there is a nonzero financial incentive that is frequent for sequencers to collaborate with one another to make more money. And here money is value and it's extractable value. So that's relatively worrying because we've formalized an argument of centralization of sequencers across many domains and we've tried to show that there could be cases where that happens. So far we don't go into a lot of cases, but we do mention that there exists such opportunities. So we then explain that further with an example because it's a little bit hard to grasp in the abstract. And so we look at a very simplified example, but we look at an example where the mev at that particular point in time on each domain would be zero.
00:20:56.682 - 00:21:49.690, Speaker A: But when you look at the cross domain mev, so looking back at that two domain mev that we looked at earlier, that's non zero. And we look at a price discrepancy on one particular domain with a single AMM, so no one can rebalance it because there's nothing to rebalance it against in that domain. But on the other domain, you have another AMM, and that one is at a different price. And so you can basically execute an arbitrage trade between the two. That can only happen if you have a view of the two. And so with this simple example, we're kind of trying to illustrate how such cross domain mev would happen. And also there is implicitly what we're trying to say as well here is that arbitrages is still the most common way for people to extract value from ordering.
00:21:49.690 - 00:22:49.994, Speaker A: And so if there are many cases where there are arbitrages that only exist from this joint optimization instead of local optimizations, then it's something that we should worry about as a credible incentive for sequencers to collaborate, collude with one another. And so to some extent not only collaborate, but to be on both chains or beyond both domains because there's a clear benefit for them to do so. So we talked a little bit. So after going through all of this, we now reason about how the market structure would look in particular, while just like in Flashboys 2.0, the risk of time managed attacks is put forward as something that would be destabilizing for consensus. Flashbacks 2.0 also shows the activity that bots take or bots do on the network.
00:22:49.994 - 00:23:55.510, Speaker A: Right. And we kind of try to take that other perspective as well. So not thinking necessarily what the sequencers would do, but what would bots that see these opportunities, how would they react? And so we think about how would they react. And so the TLDR of some of this is that to be the fastest to react to such an opportunity, you need to be active on both domains at once, right? So you can't close the full loop by starting in a single domain, executing the trade bridging, continuing the second leg of the trade and then going back to your initial domain that will be too slow. And so one of the conclusions is you're just going to execute both trades on two domains, you need capital on both and then you're going to rebalance your inventory later on. So that looks a lot like just plain old centralized exchange, cross Arab centralized exchange trading, right? But it is more capital intensive and somewhat worrying in the sense that it might increase the barrier to entry for players that want to trade in this cross chain mev world. It might be something that one should think about more.
00:23:55.510 - 00:25:01.290, Speaker A: It also makes some trading more probabilistic and so it introduces or it reintroduces the concept of risk management in these trades. This is relative to atomic execution of arbitrage when it's only on ethereum, where there is of course risk management there, but it isn't managing the risk of each leg of your trade. So we don't go into depth about this, nor do we go into depth about the pricing function. And it's definitely something we want to look into more. One thing that we mentioned in this inequality is alpha here, so a cost of collusion. So this is how we build our argument that for this inequality to be true, you don't only need the local optimizations to be worth less than the joint optimization, but assuming that the sequencers aren't the same, they need a way to communicate with each other in a way to share potentially profits with each other. And all of this is encompassed in that cost alpha, cost variable.
00:25:01.290 - 00:26:39.482, Speaker A: And so you can imagine that if instead of paying that cost, a sequencer could just build sequencing power on the Ever domain that they interact with a lot to bring that alpha as close to zero as possible. And to emphasize why we finger the cost two sequencers talking to one another, we use a result from a paper from Alexe Zamyaten called Sok on Cross Ledger Communication, where they find an impossibility result on cross chain communication in general. So that whether you need a trusted third party or you need a synchrony assumption beyond a synchrony, then using that result and the fact that we don't think a synchrony assumption is reasonable in such a system, given that these opportunities are latency sensitive, you need to trust a third party. And a way to model a trusted third party economically is an additional cost, right? It's friction, it's burden that's shouldered economically. So that's kind of the argument that we put forward, that there is a centralizing force for not only sequencers to collaborate with one another or collude with one another, but also for large sequencers or large players to aggregate. Sequencing power across multiple domains in order to reduce their cost of operation and to make this inequality true more than they would if they weren't on that particular domain that they're interacting with. Right.
00:26:39.482 - 00:27:26.694, Speaker A: And then we talk about some negative externality. So again, this is just a list, we don't dive very deeply into it. But so the first one is the one that I just talked about. Now, the cross domain sequence or centralization and why that's a potential problem, it is definitely something that has to be looked at further, also potentially calculate the economics of this. One thing that's difficult, there is a lot of this work was done with layer twos in mind and sequencer architectures of layer twos are changing very rapidly. They're currently centralized and run by teams, right? So the Arbitrum sequencer is run by off chain labs, the optimism sequencer is run by optimism, et cetera, et cetera. And so it's not the case yet that there's permissionless sequencing and so that sequencers can do all these shenanigans.
00:27:26.694 - 00:28:26.154, Speaker A: And it's presumably someone like Optimism or Arbitrum would not collude with a sequencer in another place just because they have an incentive for the users to be treated as well as possible, quote unquote. So while it's not an immediate worry in these layer twos, it will be something that will be part of the conversation as they decide how they decentralize sequencing or how they allow permissionless sequencing, which they all want to. It's definitely not something that they want to keep doing themselves. We also bring up cross domain time benefit attacks. So time management attacks that were introduced in Phil's Paper Flashboys 2.0, the idea that a miner on Ethereum, for example, would have a financial incentive to rework the chain in order to extract value that was there in the past. That's something that might also surface in cross domain mev and that's something that is a little bit harder to understand and definitely more research needs to be done there.
00:28:26.154 - 00:29:23.200, Speaker A: But it kind of speaks to Francesco's point to some extent, which is to say, you can consider your chain or your domain in a vacuum, and it's designed in a vacuum, but at the end of the day, it's influenced by other domains and other chains and how those interact with your own domain. To some extent, the composability of these different domains. And so even if you think your domain is, quote unquote, safe, there might be an incentive that's external to the chain to mess with its finality, for example. So it's definitely something that needs to be looked at more super traders, that's another negative externality. In that case, the worry is that on some domains today you have latency races taking place. So taking Arbitrum, for example, ordering on Arbitrum currently is first tense for style. This means that whoever pings the sequencer first gets their transaction in first.
00:29:23.200 - 00:30:15.630, Speaker A: So that requires latency optimization. And in traditional finance, what we've seen is players investing hundreds of millions in latency infrastructure to be milliseconds faster. And so one worry is that a player that plays this latency game across not only one domain but multiple domains will reuse that latency infrastructure and build a stronger mode around it. And we argue that these latency games are not additive to the system. And this is something that was also brought up by Eric Boudish. So that's the number two here that we mentioned, where basically the effort that is spent to be one millisecond faster is not marginal to the utility that users gain from that, right? So it makes the markets a tiny bit more efficient, I guess, but ultimately it doesn't matter as much. And so ideally we would want these efforts to be more productive.
00:30:15.630 - 00:31:08.000, Speaker A: However, it's hard to change if people invest hundreds of millions in latency infrastructure, there will be enshrined interests in keeping such a market structure alive and going. And so that's the kind of point that is made here and emphasized by Phil. Finally, the last point is the subjectivity of mev. And so that's what I mentioned earlier with this pricing function. So people will have different pricing functions because that pricing functions price is also how you quantify the trust guarantees of these systems. So if I'm using this particular bridge, how do I quantify the risk of this bridge failing? And people might have different opinions on this. So that means that ultimately the way they look at mev at a particular point in time will be different because they'll have a subjective pricing function.
00:31:08.000 - 00:31:58.110, Speaker A: And that's interesting because such a pricing function creates markets to some extent. And you have that in traditional markets as well, right, where market makers have a global fair price of a particular asset and that they trade against on many venues. But establishing that global fair price is their secret sauce and they have potentially different ways of arriving that global fair price. And that global fair price can slightly differ from others global fair price. And that's pretty interesting. So it's something that, again, recreates a lot of the dynamics that we see in traditional markets. That's also a big takeaway from this paper, I would say, is that this world looks maybe more like traditional markets and traditional markets, market making and cross chain arbitrage or like structural ARP that would take place in such markets.
00:31:58.110 - 00:32:19.510, Speaker A: I know there's questions. I'm going to address them. Finally, we end with open questions. And so these are I kind of mentioned a bunch of open questions already. I would say to some extent all of these negative externalities are open questions. So we look into how to best define the action space. This was added by Phil.
00:32:19.510 - 00:33:27.622, Speaker A: There's a lot of modeling that needs to be done. There's a lot of complexity that we swept under the rug to some extent and there's definitely more to be done there. I would say this joins a little article on the formalization of mev and the limitations to the definition that we introduced above. So there's a lot of work that needs to be done. There maybe other forms of mev than cross domain arbitrage. People are talking about cross domain governance, voting, cross domain lending, and there might be other use cases there. So maybe thinking about those more and how ordering, having ordering power on many domains at once, when these interactions take place happen, then what does a protocol for sequencer Kazoon look like and what are its desirable properties? This is kind of taking the flashbacks approach of if sequencers colluding with one another is inevitable, at least if you follow the financial incentive, then what would a protocol for this to happen look like? And then maybe from there we can also deduce some things about how the market will evolve and then we can mitigate some of the negative externalities that would arise.
00:33:27.622 - 00:34:15.260, Speaker A: It's to some extent the approach we've taken at Foshbots for many things that. We do. And so we think about that a lot. How can we identify and quantify cross genome EV extraction is another important one. So before on Ethereum, there's to some extent full transparency, there's some opacity, but you can measure and quantify mev extraction. And people at Flashbots working on mevinspec, Pi and the Explore dashboard, et cetera, do a great job of doing that here. If you think back to the thing that I mentioned before of a trader seizing an opportunity by submitting two transactions on each domain, it's very hard to link those transactions back to a single strategy that one has.
00:34:15.260 - 00:35:20.070, Speaker A: And so you need to do a lot more guessing work and to some extent use heuristics more and also maybe do some D anonymization, right? Or at least some clustering of activity such that you can identify a player that exists on multiple domains at once. This is much more complicated. And what worries us there is one of our goal is to illuminate the dark forest or bring more transparency and clarity to what's happening in these markets. So this introduces more opacity. So it is something that is on our mind and we're thinking a lot about. And finally, we want to look into distributed and parallel programming literature. So there is a appendix, who's a co author of this paper as well, who draws a parallel between this notion of cross domain mev with not only do we potentially want to look into more traditional can you still hear me?
00:35:20.520 - 00:35:22.070, Speaker B: Yeah. Now you're back.
00:35:24.140 - 00:36:09.988, Speaker A: We want to look at existing theory, basically, and existing academic literature, not only in financial theory but also in computer science that have looked at these problems that to some extent it is like multi threaded computing a little bit. There are differences there. Part of the differences are surfaced by Tarun. But it's very interesting to make this parallel. And we're hoping that maybe someone who has a lot of expertise there might and understands DeFi a little bit might be interested in picking that up and doing more there. All right, and five questions, by the way, Phil and Alejo, if you have anything to add. I kind of talked for a while right now.
00:36:09.988 - 00:36:24.250, Speaker A: I hope that was helpful to people. Okay, just a curly fly. I'm quite okay with builders being very centralized, as long as validators are not. But even PBS on each chain doesn't guarantee that if cross chain mev is much higher.
00:36:27.360 - 00:36:30.940, Speaker B: That was a clarification on the previous discussion.
00:36:32.960 - 00:37:25.804, Speaker A: More practical question about definitions again from is this still Francesco or is this for someone else? Okay. My intuition of what we care about tends towards highest bid in a full block auction rather than highest amount that can be extracted. Example of the difference is Justin Sun potentially being liquidated for one block and being willing to buy that block for up to the amount he would lose, though there's no participant who can extract that much value from the block. Justin sun may bid that much, but because he is extracting that much from the block difference for a single player, seems to me something like balance change review best block versus best delta between Balance Change Review best blog versus Balance change with a block made by others. I don't know how much this is relevant in practice. I feel like it might be irrelevant most of the time, definitions agree, but capture some important tail events. Okay, I didn't actually ask question.
00:37:25.804 - 00:37:49.556, Speaker A: I guess it's just what you think about it. Yeah, it's hard for me to reason about your question. The first thing that comes up to mind is, again, Alejo's post on the formalization of mev and how you consider a player in that definition and potentially not considering a player at all. Phil or Alejo, if you've read the question, do you have I'm going to read it again, but if you have.
00:37:49.578 - 00:38:43.584, Speaker B: Any I can answer. We talked a little bit about this with Francesco before. So what Francesco is saying is, why not characterize mev as the amount that people are willing to pay for inclusion as opposed to trying to figure out how much is extractable? Right. And I think that's a nice approach, but I think it ultimately depends on what do you want your mev definition for? Right. I think if you do that type of thing, like the Justin Sun example, even that what you will happen is that you will get quirks in mev that depend a lot in people's behavior on the chain. Right. Say Justin Sun is exposed for a huge liquidation.
00:38:43.584 - 00:40:08.210, Speaker B: And then your mev definition, when you try to quantify the mev in that chain, you will get a huge value due to that actor behaving like they did at that particular point in time, which, again, perhaps is useful in some context, but I'm not sure it's the best approach for a general definition of mev. And in the post that Alex has opened, my approach there is to try to get rid of the player. And this is a separate question, but I think what I would want an mev definition to do for us is to be able to talk about, say, protocols and the mev that they expose without notion of a player and without in particular, depending on what players are or are not doing with the protocol. Because again, if a player is just not cautious enough, then mev will be much higher. And then I don't know if that's what I want to say, okay, this protocol is exposing a lot of mev. I don't know if that's a conclusion I want to drive because of how a particular player behaved at some point. So anyway, my approach here was try to point to the player situation and try to point out that, okay, perhaps we want another definition of mev that does not have the player in there.
00:40:08.210 - 00:41:12.872, Speaker B: So that's two parts, should we have the player in there or not? And perhaps we have two different notions, but independently of that, I think if we do go with the definition that mee is the value that anybody is willing to pay, we could run into a lot of these problems that are very particular of these cases. But again, perhaps that's what you want to see from your definition if you're thinking about security of the network or things like that. So long winded answer. And yeah, I think it's an interesting question. In the end, my aim with this companion post, so to say, is to spark all this discussion. I think it's important we try to agree on what mev is and the minimum, as several people pointed out, it's tricky because what if you have a blacklist? And this is another topic we can discuss, how to encode the idea of permissionless. What's the best way to encode this mathematically hope? That more or less answers there's, more questions.
00:41:12.872 - 00:41:14.730, Speaker B: I see. Alex, so back to you.
00:41:18.320 - 00:41:53.348, Speaker A: All right. Thank you, Alejo. Awesome. All right, 33. Great. It seems that directional strategies versus pure arbitrage can be especially lucrative in a multi domain world where there are multiple dimensions to consider. Does this formulation assume a delta neutral strategy or is it inclusive of directional strategies, levering changes in price between protocol and or app tokens? So I'm not extremely familiar with being delta neutral, and if you want, you can tell us more about that.
00:41:53.348 - 00:43:03.710, Speaker A: I will say, though, the pricing function is for that particular purpose, right? So it is inclusive of these quote unquote directional strategies. This brings up another interesting point, which is when mev so far has been looked at as like pure profit, right? And at some extent like finding a structural inefficiency and executing on it atomically. But there are examples of mev that defy that definition where you still want a particular ordering, but you might hold on your position for longer, right? And so in that case of the cross domain mev, you might hold on to your position for longer because you're going to do inventory rebalancing. And so it brings up another interesting point related to definition of mev, which is, is there a time boundary to it? Like if I buy ETH and then like five blocks later I sell it and I make a profit. Was that mev? If I wanted to buy ETH at the top of the block to pay less than someone else, this is where it becomes a little bit murkier, and in the Klausalmain Mev world, it becomes very relevant. So I didn't really answer your question. I kind of said that it was something that we're looking at.
00:43:03.710 - 00:43:37.690, Speaker A: I wonder if that helps or if you want me to answer more. You're also welcome to speak. I think you can unmute yourself if you want to share more. I assume you're typing if you're not answering. Sinuan said, think given the price function formulation and a formalization, the idea of directional strategy is already incorporated. I agree. Right.
00:43:37.690 - 00:44:04.930, Speaker A: You're interested in the time component, so that's something that's maybe harder. Intuitively, the closest we are to atomic, the more I'm inclined to say that's pure profits. So mev. Oh, shit. You should be able to unmute yourselves, guys. Think. If not, I can frack and unmute you as well.
00:44:04.930 - 00:44:39.180, Speaker A: How do I look at participants? Maybe because I changed the setting while we were still in there. Ask you a mute 33. Do you want to speak? If you say yes in the chat, I'll ask you to unmute. All right. The price function considers price differences at a moment in time. Yes, but I'm interested in time component. So again, as I mentioned, that's a little bit trickier, especially when you look at different domains with different notions of time and to some extent, time and its relation to finality on each of these domains is also kind of related.
00:44:39.180 - 00:45:42.684, Speaker A: So to me and intuitively, the closest we are to atomic, the more I'm inclined to say that it's mev. And so then it's about defining atomicity in a cross domain context, which is another question. The more you're holding the asset and you're taking beta exposure, it's not purely alpha exposure. Then it becomes less and less of mev. But we've seen, for example, people using flashbots to snipe a token listing, which they anticipate the token will increase in price, but they want to be the first to buy in the liquidity pool, and so they use flashbots in order to do that and then sell the tokens later, not on flashboard. So they did have beta exposure in that case, because they had price exposure to the token, but they still benefited from the ordering. So how do you separate that concept of benefiting from the ordering to the better exposure? I think that would be something that we're looking into more.
00:45:42.684 - 00:46:01.430, Speaker A: And I would say that Alejo's work and what he described so far is kind of going in that direction. He also does mention towards the end of the article that exact point. Right. So I think he does even mention sniping. Yeah. Front running NFT bids or buyouts of new token listings. So exactly the example that I was talking about.
00:46:01.430 - 00:47:04.424, Speaker A: So that's exactly it actually sherfing mev versus probabilistic mev. I do think there's something to say about probabilistic mev. Right. And generally the practice of statistical arbitrage and then inventory management, which you do take a price risk on your inventory, maybe not if you borrow all of it, but there's some risk there that one needs to quantify, and it's still very much trading, and it's based on ordering. So that doesn't answer your question, but I hope it gives you more color on the problem space. I do really hope that because this looks a lot like traditional finance, that we can dig into more traditional finance literature to understand some of the work that has been done there. There's a lot of financial theory that has been shelved and just stays theory that's quite interesting to revisit because there are new components here, there's a programmability, the transparency of these systems, the fact that there's permissionless, access to them, all really interesting features to match against some of the theory that was introduced in the past.
00:47:04.424 - 00:48:16.176, Speaker A: There's also people like Eric Boudish that looked at traditional market structures and proposed new solutions like, for example, frequent batch auctions that people like cowswap are adopting. All right, Alex Zed, do you highlight latency rates as negativity for cross domain? Specifically, would an in domain mev pursue lowest latency either way? If sequencer was based on latency? Absolutely. In domain mev would pursue well, yes, there would be a latency race in domain. The risk that is highlighted there is that there is synergies between multiple for a player. Say they're playing on a single domain and they're optimizing their latency there, we believe, and it's been kind of shown in traditional markets, that a lot of that infrastructure and those skills can be transferable to other domains. So if there are multiple domains where there is a latency game to be played, someone could build their moat and have enshrine interests in a way that if they were playing on a single domain, they wouldn't. So it's basically saying latency is a problem in a single domain as well.
00:48:16.176 - 00:49:23.824, Speaker A: And in multiple domains, it can be a bigger problem just because there's emotes around latency. So you're right, though, that it's not only for cross domain, it's not for cross domain specifically. It is first and foremost for inside those domains. And some of the negative externalities we see is because people fight for latency, there's a lot of wasted block space with transactions that come in second and then maybe weights on the peer to peer network and congestion in terms of a lot of transactions being submitted quickly. Isn't winning PBS auctions a similarly transferable skill? It is absolutely a similarly transferable skill. Well, sorry, I wouldn't say exactly transferable, but it is similarly transferable. Ultimately, the problem of latency races that has been put forward, for example, by Buddhist, is that you have people spending a lot of effort and teams and hundreds of millions of dollars to optimize one millisecond or 1 Μs.
00:49:23.824 - 00:50:35.580, Speaker A: What if there's a way for these people to expand that effort in a way that is more useful for the network and for the markets? And that, I think, is a question for protocol designers. And protocol designers are also market structure designers of how that could look like. So in the case of PBS, you're trying to construct the most valuable block because you're bidding in that auction to a proposer. And so building the most valuable block, I would argue, is more productive than the latency rates because you're trying to optimize transactions and you're helping increase the paralyzation maybe of the network. This is just an intuition, right? But maybe there's a way for the effort that's expended by traders to be even more valuable to the network. And so there's a question of how do you value valuable to the network? What are desirable behaviors there? But I think we're still at a point where there aren't these very enshrined interests from players that have an incentive not to see market structure change massively. Also, the crypto space in general is very open minded to new changes and to rapid iterations.
00:50:35.580 - 00:51:28.412, Speaker A: At the very least, it's adding to network security through auctions payments. That's something. There we go. So we can do stuff there that hits another point that's very interesting, FRA Francesco, is the redistribution point. We don't talk about it at all in this paper, but this general idea that I just talked about, like how can we make this effort as productive as possible goes to this broader point of what is a desirable redistribution of mev. So in the simplest case, assume a single sequencer extracts all the mev and so you have access to that value and you're designing a system where you have access to that value from the sequencer. Where should that value go? Optimism says retroactive public goods funding, right? Other people might have a different view.
00:51:28.412 - 00:51:55.460, Speaker A: In the past, there has been a view shared that it could contribute to the security budget of a network by subsidizing miners and potentially having no block reward. So there are many different ways. I see kind of them split in two ways. One is more systematic and programmatic and one is with a human in the loop. So in the case of retractive public goods funding, people are voting on which projects should get funding retractively. I don't know. Yeah, exactly.
00:51:55.460 - 00:52:33.040, Speaker A: Burning is another one EAP one five nine style or smoothing. So redistributing that to everyone. There's kind of two sides of the same coin. That's definitely on our mind a lot. And there are a lot of people thinking about this because it's just value created from the network and how can it be used in the most productive way. But it is beautiful because I think mev can be an engine to growth and to security in a way that the capital markets today in traditional finance might not be as much. And so we have a chance to design a machine that's more powerful and that's self reinforcing.
00:52:33.040 - 00:53:18.752, Speaker A: And so we're definitely very excited about that. Speaking of growth, how can you envision cross domain mev when an EVM is deployed on another L one, for example, Neon Labs on Salana or Moonbeam on polka dot? Um, I don't know if Lejo or Phil, if you have some intuition for that. There is mev on Solana and there's mev on polkadot related to the ordering. And depending on the way ordering works there the fact that an EVM is deployed. I'm not sure how that influences ultimately the ordering. So I always go back to trying to understand how the ordering mechanism works. So Alejo, I see you coming closer to the screen.
00:53:18.886 - 00:53:34.070, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't know this project. Does this mean that they're like an EVM in a contract so that you can deploy things in that protocols on the chains? Is this what these projects are about?
00:53:38.380 - 00:53:50.350, Speaker A: I also am not familiar with them. I would assume there's some kind of like transpiler where you can just bring your code that's like EVM based code to Solana. But then I don't know how that works.
00:53:51.440 - 00:54:00.030, Speaker B: I just allowed to unmute if you want to clarify. Hopefully it worked this time.
00:54:00.640 - 00:54:01.660, Speaker C: Can you hear me?
00:54:01.730 - 00:54:03.164, Speaker B: Yeah, we can.
00:54:03.282 - 00:54:05.152, Speaker A: Yeah. Thanks for the call.
00:54:05.286 - 00:54:55.680, Speaker C: The way I see it is Moonbeam is launching an EVM on its parachain. And so that allows developers to deploy any smart contract they have on Ethereum to also deploy that on a parachain. So then that would be plugged into the POCA ecosystem. And I was just kind of wondering that seems kind of distinct from a cross domain mev from say, Ethereum to Solana itself because that kind of seems like an intermediary point in between the two, but it seems that they're also two distinct EVMs. I just kind of wonder your thoughts or if you guys have been thinking about that sort of intermediate step between the two ecosystems.
00:54:56.900 - 00:55:16.970, Speaker B: Yeah, I think Phil replied on the chat. I agree with that. It depends on how the ordering is chosen in those systems. If it's like the same L one, it's the same, but if there's a separate sequence, then it looks like an independent L two like any other L two, if that makes sense.
00:55:21.020 - 00:55:56.612, Speaker A: Cool. We are 1 minute to time. Does anyone have burning questions they would like to ask on anything that has been talked about on the paper on Flashbots and mev? If not, we'll close it up. One thing that I will say, I should have said at the beginning. We are hiring in the research organization of Flashbots. And so if these questions interest you, if you think about this a lot definitely hit us up. Yes, definitely hit us up.
00:55:56.612 - 00:56:25.564, Speaker A: We have a job board on notion and that you can access from different places. I believe even here in the about I can see the little job board link right here. We're hiring senior researchers, research engineers, junior researchers, and we're having a lot of fun doing this research. So join us. Last question by 33 Gray. Are you guys building or simply researching and very generously sharing? Yes. Nice.
00:56:25.564 - 00:57:16.380, Speaker A: Flashbots is open source and most, if not all of what we do is privy to the public. Also all our research is public, or at least most of it. You can look at our repo mev research. Well, you can see some of our efforts there, including a little summary of what we do. We also give grants to the community. So if you're interested in researching a specific topic, and we have this flashpulse research proposals where people can propose a topic, and then if it's accepted, you get some grant from us to research it and some light advice, or at least we collaborate to the extent we're able to help. Yes.
00:57:16.380 - 00:57:55.430, Speaker A: All right, on that note, it's 101, which is funny. Thank you all for joining. If you have any more questions, feel free to message any of us to Phil Adejo and myself on Twitter or other. You know, we're very excited about people looking at these problems more and potentially looking at some of these open questions. So if there's anything here that is interesting to you, please definitely reach out. We'd be happy to chat. You guys.
00:57:56.680 - 00:57:58.380, Speaker B: Hi. Thank you for joining.
00:58:00.640 - 00:58:13.480, Speaker A: Thanks, everyone. Do you know how to end the call? Stop sharing. Oh, there you go. All right, see you guys. Bye.
