00:00:00.090 - 00:00:02.746, Speaker A: Alright, everyone, welcome back to another episode of Bell Curve.
00:00:02.778 - 00:00:04.394, Speaker B: Before we jump in, quick disclaimer.
00:00:04.442 - 00:00:06.138, Speaker A: The views expressed by my co hosts.
00:00:06.154 - 00:00:08.542, Speaker B: Today are their personal views and they.
00:00:08.596 - 00:00:24.270, Speaker A: Do not represent the views of any organization with which the co hosts are associated with. Nothing in the episode is construed or relied upon as financial, technical, tax, legal, or other advice. You know the deal. Now let's jump into the episode.
00:00:24.890 - 00:00:42.220, Speaker B: It all right, everyone. Welcome back to the first inaugural episode of Zero X Bell Curve. This is the mashup that you didn't know you needed between Dan Smith and Westy here from the Blockworks Analyst team and the sometimes host of Xerox Research. So guys, welcome to the show.
00:00:42.590 - 00:00:43.802, Speaker C: Thank you, thank you.
00:00:43.936 - 00:00:45.260, Speaker A: Appreciate it.
00:00:46.190 - 00:01:37.862, Speaker B: All right, why don't we start with kind of a high level topic today, but then we can delve down into some specifics. So I want to talk to you guys and get your high level thoughts on Airdrops. So Airdrops have been getting some renewed interest this week. There's been some sort of funny activity going on on both Stargate and ZK Sync the last couple of days. So in the past seven days, there's been $480,000,000 in bridge volume on Stargate, and the last seven days, 195,000,000 worth of volume incoming in ZK Sync, the ZK Sync era at number two. And the general consensus is that this is sibling, sibling or sibling. And it kind of just raises the question of maybe we can just have a discussion about sort of what should the function of Airdrops be? I think we saw a pretty interesting battle and very different strategies play out earlier this year between Arbitrum and optimism.
00:01:37.862 - 00:01:50.800, Speaker B: Both had very different strategies. And I just kind of put the high level question to both of you guys. How do you generally think of Airdrops? If you're writing like a best in class sort of playbook for, let's say, an aspiring roll up, how would you advise them to do it?
00:01:51.170 - 00:02:53.534, Speaker C: Yeah, it's an interesting question because it's pretty open ended and quite frankly, unanswered at this point. You've seen the OG Airdrops where it's like, use our protocol from the early days and then we'll reward users. This is kind of the uniswap model, like they AirDrop to their LPs. Then you kind of saw an evolution of, hey, instead of just giving the token away to people who have used the protocol, why don't we incentivize continued use? And so you saw like compound kind of pioneer this by incentivizing borrowers with comp tokens. And then ever since that you saw explosion of DeFi Summer and a whole onslaught of different ways that protocols can throw tokens at users and attempt to attract sticky users. The Stargate example is a pretty hilarious one because if you go over to DeFi Llama, click their Bridges tab and just check out the activity for various bridges and they have pretty much every bridge listed here. Stargate is far and away the leader when it comes to the number of transactions.
00:02:53.534 - 00:03:30.346, Speaker C: But depending on the day, they don't always even lead in 24 hours bridge volume. But the number of transactions is where things just get hilarious. So just looking at today is July 6, so random day, but this is shamelessly consistent. If you go over to this tab, you'll think Far right says number of transactions in the last 24 hours. So coming in at third is Hop Protocol with an honest 6700 transactions. Coming in at second is currently ZK sync their bridge. And that comes in in second at 8300 transactions.
00:03:30.346 - 00:04:32.962, Speaker C: And then coming in first by an absolute mile is Stargate with 282,000 transactions. It's just not even close. And so the size gap between Stargate and everybody else, even if you combined up every bridge and said how many transactions in the last 24 hours, it's still an order of a magnitude difference. So it's funny to kind of watch these things go. And funny enough, I was actually tearing through some avalanche data earlier this week, and the most frequently used transaction contract, if you basically look at activity based on the two address, like the receiving contract or address of a transaction since the start of the year, the most hit contract is none other than the Stargate bridge. So it's just funny to see where this stretches to when it comes to pumping these daily active user numbers. But basically this is something that exists and we're going to have to kind of deal with.
00:04:32.962 - 00:04:42.966, Speaker C: But at the end of the day, if Stargate successfully attracts a host of users to their platform by doing this, then you know what, maybe it's a good thing.
00:04:43.068 - 00:05:16.514, Speaker A: Yeah. To me, there's basically two major buckets that you want when it comes to an AirDrop. The first is incentivizing sticky activity. I think a lot of airdrops in the past have incentivized activity in general, but as soon as the AirDrop ended, all the activity sort of went away. So I think focusing on more like sticky activity and that can be done. Having multiple airdrops, kind of like blur has their seasons. So doing it over time, I think is a good way to do that as well as I think sometimes having the allure of a future AirDrop is sometimes better.
00:05:16.514 - 00:06:23.202, Speaker A: Than having a specific AirDrop itself. Because then people can basically do math and understand what their ROI is and how much investment they need to put in. Whereas if it's sort of like invisible, people will put up more capital at risk and have more activity over a longer period of time. And so I think that incentivizes more sticky activity and then beyond that is like finding quality holders of your token. So I think with that comes finding actual organic users of your protocol. If you have something like Arbitrum's AirDrop, there was a lot of third parties who were able to look into the data when it came to the AirDrop and found that a lot of addresses that were very clearly sibling that AirDrop were given like a pretty sizable portion of the AirDrop ARB. And so being able to find quality token holders, like actual real organic users of the protocol who are less likely to sell the token or more likely to accumulate and be good actors in the system, I think those are like the two key components to a quality Airdrop.
00:06:23.346 - 00:06:53.866, Speaker B: I feel like it's this thing that's very easy to say in practice, very difficult to actually do. I guess you have to start high level from the perspective of the protocol and you have to say, what do I want to incentivize? What is the action and outcome that I want to do? And then what's the best way to actually do that? I think one of the right now it's very popular to do these sort of post mortem analyses on yield farming and say, oh my gosh, look at how much liquidity these protocols were giving away, look at how much it first of all, it cost them to acquire an average user. And by the way, everyone just started dumping the tokens.
00:06:53.898 - 00:06:54.986, Speaker C: This was a lose lose.
00:06:55.098 - 00:07:37.070, Speaker B: What a dumb thing for these protocols to do. I think the one shining benefit that yield farming had or Airdrops have is that it's very simple. It's very simple. And I kind of have this one experience that I'm drawing on here, which is designing sales comp plans, which if there's, like, one or two of you out there who have tried to actually design a sales comp plan, you're nodding your head aggressively because it should be super easy, and it's one of the most difficult things to do and get right. But the guiding principle of the sales comp plan is that it should be extremely simple in terms of if I sell X, this is how much I get paid. And I feel like that's the one sort of guiding light just about in terms of how token incentives have played out so far. Now I think it's a bear market.
00:07:37.070 - 00:08:10.446, Speaker B: And bear markets are typically the time that you have cloud covered to fix things that are broken. People are thinking about adding a lot of complexity, which I think is good, but there's a dual edged sword for complexity because you can get a lot more granular, but it also means there are a lot more assumptions when you make something complex and you have a lot more room to be wrong. What do you guys think about that? Kind of from a high level? And then let's try to get tactical and give protocols out there advice like what are examples that you've seen protocols execute this well? And what kind of activity? When you say sticky activity, how do you actually end up doing that in practice?
00:08:10.498 - 00:08:54.578, Speaker C: Yeah, no, that's a really good point. And you kind of mentioned the trade off between airdrops and long term liquidity provision. So if you think about somebody like Curve, they had a pretty good token allocation, 33% to team and investors with 67% to the Dow and community. So kind of something the area you generally want to see. And they had actually a very small AirDrop, but a very large portion of that went to long term liquidity provision. And to your point of what do I want, what is important to my protocol, the answer to them was very much so liquidity and as it is for most DEXes. So they kind of built a tokenomic system that says, all right, well, we need to pump out a ton of incentives and then we're going to create some sort of like a locking mechanism that kind of reels back in some of those tokens.
00:08:54.578 - 00:09:45.974, Speaker C: Of course, there's a whole box to unpack there about why their model works while a lot of these other Ve token models failed. But broadly they said, what's our most important thing? Liquidity. Well, let's go ahead and design basically a token structure that is purchasing that into perpetuity is effectively what they did. And so that's kind of like an interesting model between trading off between pure airdrops and long term incentives. But when it comes to something that we've seen more recently, blur kind of pioneered this point system where instead of just like accruing the tokens in real time, you're accruing points that will presumably was the idea, like these points will increase the size of my AirDrop. And so to Wesie's point earlier, sometimes the allure of an AirDrop is actually the most beneficial piece. And we really saw that with Arbitrum where hey, a token is coming.
00:09:45.974 - 00:10:19.486, Speaker C: Hey, a token is coming. Six months, eight months, twelve months later, the token finally shows up. And now that they've gradually built up so much usership, then we are seeing a fairly sticky liquidity there. And I would probably say a large portion of Arbitrum's success is actually having apps worth using. Granted, most of them are like perpetual futures exchanges, but it's sticky nonetheless. Yeah, I guess there's a tip if you want sticky liquidity, somehow incorporate gambling. But we're seeing that kind of spill over into the Solana ecosystem as well.
00:10:19.486 - 00:11:01.262, Speaker C: Right? So Marginfi just announced their point system model, which again, they didn't say it was for an AirDrop, but that is presumably what these points are being racked up for. However, that's definitely not guaranteed. We saw I believe, I'm afraid to say this name because I don't want to quote it wrong, but I believe it was etherfi. And they kind of put out a point system, they tallied those up and then they're like, hey, you can spend these points on some of our merch. And it's like, okay, that's not what we were going but so Marginfi is launching this point based system. They're a lending protocol. So either lending assets to the protocol to spin up the borrowing process gives you points and borrowing assets from the protocol get you points as well.
00:11:01.262 - 00:11:44.042, Speaker C: And then lastly, you can refer other people to the protocol to kind of help promote the word of the protocol and that gets you points as well. And so again, the intent or the idea of this is like okay, if I earn enough points, that'll increase the size of my AirDrop position. And so you've seen people kind of compound their farming efforts by taking Jito Sol, which is Jito is like an LST provider based on Solana, taking that asset, depositing it into marginfi and then kind of like compounding. Right. So you get Jeto soul exposure while depositing into marginfi. It's kind of like a two for one. So is that the best way to do it still TBD, really, but it is certainly the most popular way as of right now.
00:11:44.096 - 00:12:23.270, Speaker A: Yeah, I wish there was one example I could point to and say that's like a great example of an airdrop. I don't think we've kind of hit that yet. I think each and every one has had some sort of flaw with it. I think the best one has been Arbitrum to date. And I think that's just because you can look at the success that it's had after its AirDrop, where even now it's number two in dex volume to ethereum, sometimes even passing it on certain days, and this is after incentives and the AirDrop has been admitted. And so I think that's like a clear point to it being a successful AirDrop. Whether the allocation itself or having the AirDrop be most of it all at once is a good idea.
00:12:23.270 - 00:13:16.090, Speaker A: I think has yet to be determined, but I think for the most part it's been successful. And I would agree with Dan that things along the lines of Blur or what's happening with these Solana projects where like a point system where people have a clear roadmap, clear KPIs of what it takes to get the AirDrop, but at the same time not having some sort of clear ROI or clear, here's the number of tokens you're getting, and this is how much dollars you're getting allows for more activity because sort of that unknown factor that Arbitrum had applies there, where people don't know what they're getting, which means they're more likely to have higher amounts of activity. So overall, if we can see Blur have sort of like Arbitrum have the same level of activity, if not more, following its airdrops, I think we can therefore point to that as probably the most successful.
00:13:16.430 - 00:13:59.240, Speaker C: I'm curious Westy, though, do you think that the Arbitrum airdrops success was like I don't know. So Arbitrum didn't really see a sharp drop off in total transactions users. There was a bit of a decline, but nothing like astronomical by any means. They still have high TBL, still have good activity. The Dow is still generating decent revenue from the sequencer and would you say that, how do you think the AirDrop really plays into that? I get the narrative that, oh, there's a bit of a wealth effect. You AirDrop everybody a few thousand dollars, which is effectively what happened, and they're more likely to stick around and hang out there. And I see how that works for an L two.
00:13:59.240 - 00:14:39.400, Speaker C: But L two has kind of had a bit of a privileged position, right. They raised at insane valuations and kind of came out predetermined to be everybody gave that token a range between I wouldn't say everybody, most sensible people gave that token somewhere an estimated price between like eighty cents and a buck twenty. Right. In line with what we're seeing on FDV wise between other L two S or current market cap wise. And that's exactly where it came out and is quite frankly, still trading. So they kind of had this ability to give everybody a few thousand dollars, and plus that matters a bit more when you're a base layer like an L one or an L two, as opposed to, let's say I was just a new Dex that I was launching on ethereum. Right.
00:14:39.400 - 00:14:42.680, Speaker C: How do you think the dynamics work there?
00:14:43.530 - 00:15:57.822, Speaker A: That's definitely a good point, that it being an L2, especially one of the first L two S to go live and get adoption, I think that contributed a lot to it, sort of gaining momentum and the AirDrop sort of continued that flywheel. But at the same time, having an AirDrop, and specifically the allure of an Airdrop, I know the arbitrary AirDrop was teased for like a year and a half prior to it even dropping. And so because of that, you're able to sort of create a flywheel on its own over time as more apps develop there, because they want to take advantage of all the people who are there to cycle the AirDrop. And as more and more users go there, as more apps build there, you sort of build an ecosystem that becomes sustainable over time. And that is the goal of an AirDrop, is to incentivize activity that is sticky and you sort of create a flywheel where once you get rid of those incentives, it can sort of exist on its own. So I would say, like the AirDrop and the fact that it was teased for such a long time and that Arbitrum was able to gain that momentum as a result, that I would say it's successful. Whether or not we're looking at the AirDrop as an event specifically, or all of its incentives leading up to it.
00:15:57.876 - 00:16:50.510, Speaker B: I would agree with that. I hadn't really thought necessarily about know, obviously Arbitrum waited way longer than optimism, but it's almost the analogy of maybe like HBO versus Netflix, where Netflix kind of dumps everything on you in one weekend and then you watch it when season two comes out, you just can't remember anything. As opposed to Arbitrum is HBO and each episode of Game of Thrones come out on a weekly basis and you get used to it and you build it and you talk about it and you like it. I feel like Arbitrum was just much better at drawing out the hype and they got you to do so much more up on their ecosystem and you'd been there for so long, they're like, maybe I'm just going to stick around here now I've got some ARB tokens and they were probably much more successful at generating that. But I guess if you're a layer two, you've got a couple of different weapons in your tool belt, right, to try to incentivize activity. You've got your AirDrop, so there's a strategy around that. Then you've got your sort of emissions schedule and then you've got grants that you can dole out.
00:16:50.510 - 00:17:07.860, Speaker B: Like optimism was they sort of I think optimism actually did a pretty good job just in terms of giving out big grants to DApps that wanted to launch on that platform. So it is worth pointing out it's not like airdrops are the only thing, it's one thing in your tool belt of different levers to pull.
00:17:08.310 - 00:18:14.822, Speaker C: Yeah, it'll be fun to watch what ZKsync does because they've been teasing a token for quite some time as well. You see heavy AirDrop farming there as well. But what's interesting is just based on discussions we've had with the team on our various CRX research podcasts that we've had, they seem pretty pro the idea that there will be a token that will be used to decentralize the sequencer. And if that's the case, then we talk about the trade off between AirDrop and long term incentives. You kind of need those long term emissions where you're rewarding validators for participating honestly within your validating or sequencing process. And that gets into a whole nother interesting piece for Arbitrum and optimism because they don't have those long tail mission schedules built into their current token models and they also don't really have a steadfast way to decentralize their sequencers. So they might run into a problem later down the line that maybe ZKsync, by launching their token later, launching their chain later, might have like a leg up and that kind of like, I guess, counteracts the idea of first mover advantage is everything in crypto.
00:18:14.886 - 00:19:22.046, Speaker B: Do you guys see that sonny, the founder of Osmosis, actually tweeted out that proof of stake was a mistake and actually had all these people piling on and yeah, John Charbodow came over the top and said, I might agree with you for roll ups and maybe approved authority design would actually make a lot more sense. Which I thought was pretty interesting because decentralizing the sequencer is definitely a more complicated task than I think many of us had originally thought. But I want to bookend this discussion of airdrops and actually move into talk a little bit about Solana DeFi. So Dan, you were starting to bring this up earlier, Wesy, I know you've been digging around deeply in the data of Solana, but I'd love to just get your guys sort of viewpoint. Solana originally DeFi was one of the first use cases that was touted on Solana and you had serum and that was the first pretty exciting example. Now, I know it doesn't look so great in hindsight, but of a central limit order book that was actually possible. On know, anatoly did a great job of putting out this vision of sort of consensus of the speed of light and a decentralized exchange that works globally as fast as Nasdaq, and you really jazzed everyone up.
00:19:22.046 - 00:19:50.860, Speaker B: Post FTX, one of the hardest hit sectors in all of Crypto was probably DeFi and Solana, but now you're sort of starting to see this rebirth and this phoenix rise from the ashes, if you will, which I think if you've been poking around and paying attention, there are some great founders that are building in that space. So I would love to just get your guys sort of high level views on how you're viewing Solana DeFi these days, whether or not you think there's some potential there. Is it all just a smoldering wreckage post FTX or what's your sort of view on the whole thing?
00:19:51.390 - 00:20:47.590, Speaker C: Smoldering wreckage is honestly not a bad description of the current state, but I think that's primed for a renaissance, to be completely honest. So the idea of a high throughput blockchain makes a lot of sense in a lot of different ways and man, every time I hear a discussion about decentralizing the sequencer or social consensus or this or that, I'm like, I'm buying more soul, not financial advice. But it's just every single time that you get into those steel headed conversations, it's tough man, it really is. And so I'm like one single shard. That idea seems to solve a lot of these problems and let's just juice the base layer until we can get the throughput to where it needs to be. And yeah, there's definitely going to be problems that we run into there, but it's not like the other path has no problems either. So I'm glad we have teams building modular blockchains and I'm also glad we have teams focused on maximizing the throughput of a single shard.
00:20:47.590 - 00:21:23.266, Speaker C: So that's the thesis around why I'm still paying attention to Solana, to be completely honest. It's just the idea that someone is going down the other side of the path where it's not like it's all sunshine and roses on the modular side either. So that's what kind of kept my attention there. And then once you start digging in, there are really good teams building. Marginfi and Jito are two teams. That's why I'm interested in them. And I mentioned them earlier for potential of an AirDrop, which again, I have no idea if that's the case, but would be very interested in participating in those ecosystems.
00:21:23.266 - 00:22:09.542, Speaker C: Most certainly. Jito is building an mev focused liquid staking solution and Margin FIAs like this lending protocol. Those are two very core primitives that ethereum has done very, very well. Obviously, Lido is kind of dominating the game when it comes to liquid staking, but that is taking an increasingly forefront when it comes to the rest of DeFi. We're seeing fresh DeFi protocols being built strictly around liquid staking. Super exciting to see that kind of formulate out. And that's also now getting translated over to Solana and just granted the fact that Solana kind of it's hard to say what was real and what was just Alameda kind of forged during the heat of the Bull Run.
00:22:09.542 - 00:22:19.506, Speaker C: But there's still some interesting tech there, and I'm interested in what's to come. So there's teams like Ellipsis being built by I think it's Phoenix. Phoenix. Labs.
00:22:19.538 - 00:22:21.062, Speaker B: Not Eugene.
00:22:21.126 - 00:22:46.570, Speaker C: Yeah. Super excited about what they're building. Just getting the idea of the onchain order book back. We haven't really figured that out. And I would say DEXes as a whole is probably the most exciting cornerstone of DFI right now. On Ethereum, you have univ four ambient curve V, two their fresh contracts have coming out. And then when you look over in the Cosmos, you have duality and the new era of Cosmos sorry, of Osmosis.
00:22:46.570 - 00:23:17.862, Speaker C: And then Salana is really no different. You have Luffinity, and Ellipsis, while openbook, is kind of coming back online, so it's definitely not dead. And there's a lot of interesting things being built. And if you're someone I keep talking about airdrops, I'll bring it back up. But if you're someone who that's what you want to do and go farm airdrops, then I would definitely recommend not competing against the Cybo bots that are built to be EVM compatible and go get in the trenches with you and ten other people checking out. Salana, DFI.
00:23:17.926 - 00:24:11.414, Speaker A: Yeah, I think Dan hit the nail on the head there. To me, I think one of the biggest aspects of blockchain that I think you've sort of forgotten at this point is composability. And some people think synchronous composability, like, within the same block isn't necessary, but I think it can be a superpower if possible. With Salana, you have the ability for synchronous composability and within like, 400 millisecond block times. So you can imagine once you sort of stack these Lego blocks on top of each other, that you would just have very seamless UX experiences across many different apps. And I pulled up a Zero Xmer Tweet, and it's so funny to see the amount of projects building on Solana DeFi and looking at each one and understanding the quality of the teams. He has phoenix, marginfied, drift, zeta, cypher, meteora, jupiter, mango, jet.
00:24:11.414 - 00:24:50.310, Speaker A: Like, the list literally goes on and on and on. He has an entire thread of all these projects building on Solana DeFi. And once you understand how the pieces sort of fit together from one project to another, you sort of see like, yeah, the DeFi ecosystem is coming back to life. And while Solana DeFi was sort of plagued by FTX's downfall last year, I think a lot of the teams have hunkered down. We've seen a lot of new teams come on board and really they seem pretty unfazed by it all. And as soon as we start to see more capital, more users flow back into the ecosystem, I think it's definitely primed for an explosion.
00:24:50.890 - 00:25:45.430, Speaker B: Yeah, I tend to agree with all of that. And what I would just remind folks who sort of look at Ethereum and Salana and do a compare contrast is I would say in 2019 or 2018, ethereum did not look like the bulletproof behemoth, market leading smart contract platform that it does today. All these platforms that we like to point to at early successes of crypto, the Uniswaps, the Ave's, et cetera, these things didn't really exist. There wasn't an enormous amount to do on chain. And actually the narrative back then was ICOs were a scam and all of this capital raising stuff that you're doing is illegitimate and probably bitcoin is the thing that really makes sense and works. And there's just a lot of pattern matching that you could do in between the Salana DFI space today and where Ethereum was in 2018 and 2019. And it's almost an oversaid meme at this point, but I think sub 80 Ethereum is the same thing as sub 15 or $20 sold.
00:25:45.430 - 00:26:30.482, Speaker B: That's not going to be an opportunity that lasts forever, not financial advice. I think you're exactly right. It's a risk reward thing as well, which is so much is priced into Ethereum. No shade. But if you look at the roll up space, how many ten to $15 billion FDV roll ups can we get before someone says, wait a second, does this ultimately really make that much sense? Or do you want to look at the whole market cap of Salana being sub 50 billion or something? So I tend to agree with you. There's an interesting before we move on here, there's an interesting cold start problem that I think if Solana solved, they'd be more off to the races. There's this virtuous cycle between liquid staking and DeFi that doesn't quite exist in Solana.
00:26:30.482 - 00:27:06.946, Speaker B: So basically, if you had to do sort of a user journey, right, for people in Ethereum, the very first thing that you do is buy Ethereum on a centralized exchange. Then you move that to a MetaMask wallet, then you liquid stake that, then you take your liquid staking token and you use it in DFI and you compound your yield, right, taking a minimal amount of risk. The problem in Salana is twofold is that, one, you don't have a robust DFI ecosystem yet, or you did, you just had a gigantic 18 wheeler drive right through it. And then two is that the adoption for liquid staking is just so much lower.
00:27:07.048 - 00:27:07.266, Speaker C: So.
00:27:07.288 - 00:27:33.066, Speaker B: You kind of have these two fundamental building blocks that you haven't been able to kick start that virtuous cycle yet that I think would really kick off a Solana DeFi summer. But they're a great team. Like Jito is trying to solve that, marinade is trying to solve that. And once that gets mean, then you're kind of off to the races and you can either view that as a problem or you could be like, this is a really Solvable. This is a solvable problem. Once this gets kicked off, you know, could be gangbusters.
00:27:33.178 - 00:28:35.474, Speaker C: Yeah, I strongly agree with that. I think you're going to see a Curve like decks get built on Solana where it has above average tech and it just chucks incentives at the wall and people will build projects to come make a token to stick to pool on that protocol at that dex and participate in the rewards ecosystem. You could argue that fracs would not exist if Curve did not exist. If you look just at their liquid staking token, they use a two token model and the unstaked version requires an external yield to be an attractive solution. And so that gets generated through Curve and that's what Curve was built to do. So it's kind of like this symbiotic relationship for the two protocols, but then you start zooming out and say, okay, well, how many other protocols have been built on top of curve, convex, staked out, conic, concentrator, the list goes on. How many protocols have been built on top of Fracs? There's also quite a few.
00:28:35.474 - 00:29:30.034, Speaker C: And Somalier, which is a Cosmos chain, actually just integrated Fracs. So you see this flywheel cycle that starts to happen when there's this one maybe liquidity hub or incentive hub that kind of helps kickstart the flywheel you're talking of. And then you need like a solid lending protocol for sure, because leverage is kind of what spins the entire world, not just crypto. And the other thing I find interesting is Solana. If you just follow a few of their more popular, I don't want to say influencers, but people who live and breathe the Solana ecosystem, they are actually focused on building apps that people want to use. And that gets touted heavily by Anatoly himself, which that's also a bit of a culture shift from ethereum, which not necessarily a bad thing or a good thing. It's just something I've noticed where ethereum is focused on building out a scalable solution because that's what it needs to do.
00:29:30.034 - 00:29:43.826, Speaker C: Where Solana is like, hey, let's load this thing up, let's get people on chain. That is their chief focus right now. And I find that super interesting. So we might even see that's not DeFi related really be the kickstarter for Solana.
00:29:43.858 - 00:30:10.398, Speaker A: I wonder if they sort of take a page out of ETH d five's book where there's sort of like creative solutions to bootstrap LSDs, whether that be interest rate derivatives. I know Pendle's been doing really well recently, whether that be stable coins backed by LSTs. I think there's a lot of creativity going on in the ETH ecosystem that Solana could maybe pick up on and do more efficiently. So I wonder if they sort of take a book out of that page.
00:30:10.564 - 00:30:40.410, Speaker B: I want to move on and get your thoughts on liquid staking because that's the subject of this series topic. But before we do, I actually want to plug permissionless because we're doing a salana. First of all, permissionless is the event that we do with Bankless going to be the biggest, best event in all of DFI and crypto more broadly. That's happening September 11 through the 13th in Austin, Texas. This year. Dan and Westy are going to be down there. So a little extra incentive and we're doing a great Salada D Five panel, which made me think of this.
00:30:40.410 - 00:31:25.560, Speaker B: And we're actually going to have margin phi Eugene from Ellipsis, we're going to have Lucas from Jito and Bartosh from Cube Exchange all talking about Salada D Five going to be an absolutely fire panel. We're going to be talking about the roll up ecosystem, account abstraction, a whole bunch of really cool stuff. It's a discount code bell curve 30, so you get 30% off if you're listening to this. See you there. All right, but I want to move on to liquid staking more broadly and get your perspective. Wesy, so you actually wrote a great piece on this for sort of the state of Lstfi in general and would love to kind of just get your sense of how you break out the ecosystem at a high level. Some of the interest, like what's driving activity today and then what's some of the more interesting experimentation that you see going on there.
00:31:26.010 - 00:32:19.254, Speaker A: Yeah, it's a great question. So actually split up sort of Lstfi as a whole into five buckets. The first one is sort of like leverage staking where people basically take their LSDs, borrow ETH against them, stake them into LSTs again, and sort of loop that. And Aave made that particularly popular and more specifically with Steeth as the specific LST. And that was actually a major driver in Steeth supply growth over the past year was its use in looped leverage. And so you have Ave as sort of like the main protocol for looped leverage, but you also have other leverage protocols such as Gearbox starting to pop up, which do something similar and try and maybe have sort of higher risk strategies but with higher potential yield. And so that's sort of like the first category.
00:32:19.254 - 00:33:26.794, Speaker A: The second is sort of within AMMS and providing liquidity. So because LSTs are correlated to ETH, you can have sort of LST ETH pairs, and you're able to basically not only get the yield from the LST side of that LP pair, but also the yield coming from trading. Fees and also potential incentives from DEXs or through something like a curve model where these LSTs provide incentives to basically bribe voters to drive more incentives to their pools. So that's a great way to sort of drive adoption. Curve has obviously become the number one dex for LST trading but you have balancer and aura that have specific sort of designs around LSTs and trying to bootstrap that and so I think they could potentially give Curve a run for their money as well as uniswap V three and potentially V four. I'm going to guess they have some sort of LST strategy. And then from there you sort of have LST baskets which are meant to diversify your risk into different LSTs.
00:33:26.794 - 00:34:54.150, Speaker A: But really you're adding additional risk because now you have a new smart contract you need to worry about. But you also have the ability to have sort of like a convex like platform where now that you have some sort of treasury and a bunch of LSTs, you can build products based on that, whether that be new AMMS or something along those lines to bootstrap yield and bootstrap more of the LST in your treasury. And then from there I think the final two are probably the most interesting and have seen probably the most growth as of late which are LST backed stablecoins. So you have Libra I think is pronounced where you basically have LST backed stablecoin and it's a ride fork where you have basically no interest loans on the back of your LST and then you have other projects that are launching that are very similar. You have Prisma I believe is launching pretty soon which is looking to basically enter into the Curve complex flywheel you have other projects as well. Raft is another one which is another Rife for. But basically they all take different design decisions whether they're hard begging to the US dollar because in the case of Libra, the stablecoin itself is accruing a portion of the staking yield that's backing it and as a result there's basically higher incentive to hold the stablecoin than there is to borrow against the LST.
00:34:54.150 - 00:36:02.398, Speaker A: And so as a result the peg obviously is going to increase against the US dollar and that could have a problem when it comes to those that have borrow positions. And so hard coding to the US dollar might pose a lot of risks to the protocol but at the same time soft pegging to the US dollar. Obviously you're not going to have the same stability and so there's sort of tradeoffs that different projects make and there's a lot of experimentation here and I think these are the projects that have grown, I think the most out of all of Lstfi on a percentage basis. Libra has seen immense growth over the past month particularly and so that's like a pretty interesting area to look at. And the final one is interest rate derivatives. So basically Hendl is a good example because they've been growing like crazy recently where basically they're a split token protocol where you can basically take a yield bearing token and split its principal and yield components. And from there you're able to have certain strategies that you wouldn't be able to otherwise utilize such as trading sort of the yield on a specific token or maybe buying a discounted token prior to its expiration date.
00:36:02.398 - 00:36:35.302, Speaker A: There's a lot of different strategies that are involved and as a result, Pendle has been able to basically create LST pools for these split tokens that are incentivized. And a lot of people have locked up their capital to deploy certain strategies and increase their I think, you know, as we go forward and Staking becomes sort of like the risk free rate almost within DeFi, I think. There's going to be a lot of interesting products around, trading the interest rate around ETH and so, yeah, those final two buckets as a whole, I think, are the fastest growing and the most exciting.
00:36:35.366 - 00:36:45.914, Speaker C: The Pendle stuff is really interesting. I admittedly haven't done too big a deep dive there, but does that effectively give you the ability to go long ETH Staking rewards?
00:36:46.042 - 00:37:24.182, Speaker A: Yeah, it's interesting. So like I said, you have like a principal and a yield token and each of those have an expiration date. And as you get closer to the expiration date, if you hold the yield token, you basically get paid out that yield and the actual value of the token sort of falls towards zero as you get closer to the expiration date. And the principal token is sort of like discounted versus R value. You can buy it discounted and then wait until it gets to its expiration date and it's going to converge on its basically actual value. And so as a result, you can sort of trade the yield tokens. If you think all of a sudden there's going to be a ton of mev coming up and yield staking in e staking yield.
00:37:24.182 - 00:37:59.378, Speaker A: You can buy the yield Token, hope that appreciates in price because it's pricing in its future yield, or you can maybe short the token if you think there was a huge mev event and it's not going to be sustainable and it's going to come down. So yeah, there is a way to basically trade the yield token. I'm not sure if it's the most capital efficient or the best way to trade it. I think there are other models that are coming out that are probably better when it comes to specifically trading the yield on Steeth, but at the same know, it's pretty good for what we got now and obviously they've been able to bootstrap that liquidity.
00:37:59.474 - 00:38:36.174, Speaker B: Yeah, there's a lot of interesting experimentation going on. Wesley, one thing that I've heard that might actually act as slight pushback, but I want to get your perspective on it is in doing the research and we actually recorded with Posse this morning, and that's going to come out next Tuesday, which is a great episode. But his perspective is that Lstfi is a little bit of a meme and actually some of the majors in DeFi, they all basically accept liquid Staking tokens as collateral. So if your advantage is that you only work with liquid staking tokens, then that's not ultimately really a moat and that you're just going to get eaten by the majors. So what would you respond to that pushback?
00:38:36.222 - 00:39:39.218, Speaker A: I think that's a pretty fair take to me. LSTs are a great bootstrapping mechanism, especially now that we're only at like 20% of East Staked and I think there's a lot of room to grow when it comes to liquid staking growth staking as a whole. As a result, right now, if you're a new protocol, it's the best way to capitalize on that and create TVL and create excitement and activity. And so going back to the AirDrop conversation using your token now to bootstrap that liquidity, that's sticky, that stays in potentially your treasury or within TVL of the protocol I think is a really good move because I don't think there's going to be many opportunities to bootstrap this amount of capital in the future. And so, yeah, the way I see it is this is sort of like bootstrapping mechanisms for these new protocols and it's sort of what they do from here. That's the bigger question. So obviously just having LSTs back your coin is probably not the most optimal, but sort of starting with that and sort of capturing the narrative and then pivoting from there, I think is where we're going to separate the winners from the losers.
00:39:39.314 - 00:40:42.362, Speaker B: I want to move and talk a little about sort of a combination of Dex and AMM design, which I feel like is becoming a much hotter topic. You guys have done some great interviews on zerox research with Doug Colkit of Ambient Finance and most recently Sonny Agarwal of Osmosis, but I want to talk a little bit about Blur and your thoughts on NFTs in general. So we talked about this last week, so I don't feel the need to go way more in detail about it. But Azuki had What I would Call a pretty disastrous mint the last week, where they raised an additional 38 million or so, like just under $40 million worth of capital with these new elemental azukis and basically the exact same art, which is almost funny, right? I think the community was very upset. I understand there's going to be some sort of a lawsuit and the floor, it's one of the first times I think I've ever seen crypto markets respond perfectly efficiently. They doubled the supply of tokens and the floor price fell 50%. So we've got an official market here, guys, that finally makes some sense.
00:40:42.362 - 00:41:27.080, Speaker B: But since then, Pacman, the founder of Blur, came out with a Tweet. One of the interesting things that I frankly didn't understand a lot is the Azuki floor seemed like it dragged a whole bunch of other NFT floor prices with it. So nothing else was down 50%, I don't think, but it was all down 20 or 30%. And now you're starting to see this idea of the death of NFTs. And Blur's founder Pac Man came out and basically had this sort of defensive Twitter post and said this wasn't Blur that killed. Was he actually, frankly called the point of the finger at Azuki. But I'd be curious to get your guys take on the state of the NFT market and what impact, if any, do you think Blur had?
00:41:30.190 - 00:42:10.710, Speaker C: I don't know. Maybe it's a controversial take, but I think PFP NFT, the whole craze around that corner of the market, that was a 2020 2021 phenomenon. I think this is going one direction, and it's not up. The idea of digital art being in the form of an NFT, that will never go away. That will be a continually growing market, luxury art, well, that's just how it works. And the fact that it's now digital seems like a great idea to me. I think my generation probably leans towards favoring more digital things, and the one generation below me will most certainly be favoring more digital things.
00:42:10.710 - 00:43:00.070, Speaker C: So I'm bullish on the idea of NFT based art, specifically Art and the Goose is a great example of this that just recently sold for around $5 million. Yeah, I'm bullish on that idea. I'm also bullish on the idea of using the underlying technology of NFTs to power very interesting crypto based solutions. An example of this would be like a block space futures market. So the rights to order the transactions within a specific block is inherently valuable, and each block is different, non fungible. So using an NFT to represent the rights of ordering a certain block becomes a very interesting thing. And so that's like a cool use case where NFTs could power more of, like an actual crypto native product.
00:43:00.070 - 00:43:34.930, Speaker C: Another example is maybe like uniswap using NFTs for their LP position. So not necessarily the best example just because there's a lot of inefficiencies around that, but nonetheless, it is like interesting experimentation with the underlying technology. But I just don't see how the PFP collections ten k of these shitty pictures. I'm bearish I don't know how else to say it. I'm not excited about it. It is not interesting, and I do think it will go away. There will be a new form of gambling that takes the place in the role of the PFP NFT marketplace.
00:43:34.930 - 00:44:11.260, Speaker C: That's just kind of my two cent on the yeah, I don't think it's Blair's fault. I think they are just a market participant. Okay. Like, if I'm an Azuki holder and I got the exact same metadata NFT as one I already had, yeah, I'm going to be pissed. But am I really going to be excited if I got a picture that just looked no, you just gave me another worthless picture. And no, they weren't worthless before, but I don't think the floorplace would have taken much of a different move. Again, you doubled the supply and it got cut in half.
00:44:11.260 - 00:44:20.350, Speaker C: What else did you expect was going to happen? I don't know. I'm just not excited about the state of NFTs and probably won't continue to be.
00:44:20.420 - 00:44:35.826, Speaker B: I think there's two different discussions here, which is what is the long term future of PFP collections? And then there's the immediate proximate cause of the NFT bear market and blur's impact, if any. What goes up must come.
00:44:36.008 - 00:44:36.690, Speaker C: Think.
00:44:36.840 - 00:45:57.118, Speaker B: I don't think anyone should be wildly shocked that the market for JPEGs went down as much as it had a meteoric rise and this was always inevitable to some degree. I do think it's in. We were talking about this a little bit before we got online, but I think there is a liquidity cuts both ways a little bit, and it was a great uncommon core episode, one of the early ones where dgen spartan laid out this framework for why DeFi topped so far before the rest of the market. And the idea was he actually talked about sushi swap being the cause of the DFI summer top. And the reason was it was sort of the fork of uniswap and it was the first one to experiment with pool twos and do all this very risky, very extreme incentivization of liquidity on the platform. And it basically in a bull market when everything is going up, that's fine. But if you are a whale sitting on a whole bunch of illiquid DeFi tokens and you see this as the golden, maybe last opportunity to sell, you're going to sell, right? So there's probably a similar analogy here between blur and blend, where if you are sitting on a whole bunch of JPEGs and you realized that they were not going to the moon, and ultimately you were looking to sell, but up until that point, the liquidity conditions just hadn't been fit, and all of a sudden you had an opportunity to sell.
00:45:57.118 - 00:46:19.058, Speaker B: You would probably sell. So I think there's a direct analogy to be made there. So liquidity kind of cuts both ways and I come down on pac man's side of things. It's not their fault, I don't think. This was always just sort of bound to happen. But then I also think that there's a discussion to be had about the future of PFP NFTs. I would agree with some parts of.
00:46:19.064 - 00:46:20.166, Speaker A: What you said, Dan, but I would.
00:46:20.188 - 00:46:46.890, Speaker B: Also push back a little bit. I think there's an interesting question. Frankly, it would be an interesting poll to get done across different age groups, but if you could spend $2,500, keep in mind that's about one ETH, right? Like one ETH on a nice suit or like a sick NFT I don't know that I have to think about. Right. Because depending on what I get with that NFT, if I feel like it actually affords me status.
00:46:47.050 - 00:46:47.594, Speaker C: Who knows?
00:46:47.642 - 00:47:13.442, Speaker B: I mean, I'm addicted to Twitter. My God. I mean, I go on Twitter far more than I wear a suit. And that's kind of a cute example. But I had talked about this becoming a Pudgy shill here, but I talked to Luca, one of the co founders of Pudgy, and he just had such a refreshing take on what it took to build a and look at what they've done. They've actually sold penguins. They're talking about licensing the image of Pudgies.
00:47:13.442 - 00:47:59.480, Speaker B: Just go old fashioned. Just slap some Pudgy penguins on pajamas, and maybe you sold the white pajamas for $10. You sold the license image for 15, and you have a great income stream there. So I think, to be honest, there were a lot of founders that were pretty opportunistic in the NFT space. They saw the chance to just raise ungodly amounts of money, but they didn't necessarily know how to actually, once they've launched the NFT brands, how to build that IP. And what you'll probably see is the week gets separated from the chaff, and a whole bunch of founders that have more actual experience in building lasting IP and generating revenue step in and do that. And I think the last thing that Azuki was a great example of is I don't know if you've ever heard the framework of, you have to earn the right to launch a new product.
00:47:59.480 - 00:48:39.442, Speaker B: It's very tempting to, oh, this isn't really working. Let's just launch a new product. Really, the product greats over the years have kind of this framework of your customers. You need to have basically saturated what your customers want, really hit it out of the park with your current service offering before you can launch another. I think it's the same thing with Mints, right? I think Azuki would have gone very differently if there was this whole sort of character and identity introduced by the original collection, and they had done all of these different things to monetize it. And then within that general sort of storyline and community, there was a reason to launch another set of NFTs that complemented the Azuki originals. They were slightly different.
00:48:39.442 - 00:48:53.778, Speaker B: There was a different identity then that Mint would have worked. But if your whole business model is to just mint new JPEGs and create a perpetual motion machine, then that's not going to work. So that was a bit of a rambling explanation, but that's kind of my thoughts.
00:48:53.954 - 00:49:21.918, Speaker C: Way too much logic when I could just go sell some JPEGs for $38 million. But no, I agree with you. I think there will definitely be PFP. NFTs that stick around and stay around and will always be a thing. There is value in culture. I do buy that narrative. I just really don't see, like, okay, the NFT market exploded last Bull Run, and all it literally was, was taking a random series of pictures and selling them and then going straight to zero.
00:49:21.918 - 00:49:33.780, Speaker C: And that happened over and over and over again. And maybe it's too optimistic to think that market participants will be wiser over time, but I will eat my words if that happens again.
00:49:34.950 - 00:50:14.240, Speaker A: Yeah, and I agree with everything you said, Mike, that we're going to have some winners come out of this. But at the same time, for me, I think the most valuable projects, the ones that will have the highest returns, are those with the clean slate, that are sort of the new shiny objects that have new ideas, new creative things that they're building. The 10,000 PFP Collection, I think, is kind of done, that's been done a million times. So once people start to iterate, have new sort of creative ideas, I think people are just going to latch onto that. And because you have a clean slate, you don't have a price chart to look at for history. People are just, I think, going to bid the new projects as opposed to the old.
00:50:16.130 - 00:50:39.980, Speaker B: Yeah, I tend to agree with that too. All right. I think that's probably good for NFTs. Maybe we could close on this idea of D Five 1.0 catching a bid. I actually was reminding myself we're talking about Djen Spartan. Have you ever seen his D Five bare progress chart, obedter thing? Yeah, so I was following it for a little bit, but I saw a tweet the other day.
00:50:39.980 - 00:51:35.500, Speaker B: This comes from Mika Honkasalo tweet that we are actually, right now in July, is month 35 of the D Five bear market. So obviously 36 months is something that Djen Spartan pulled out of his ass. But it's funny because D Five was a little bit idiosyncratic with the rest of the market. It led the market, it experienced a bear market earlier, and it's really just been down in the depths for such a long period of time. And I'd be curious maker, it actually looked like, was catching a bid for the first time in quite a long time recently. And that with even the backdrop of Endgame, which I'm not sure anyone really understands, is sort of acting as a headwind. So I'd be curious, what do you guys think of the current state of DeFi? Is it posed for some potential? I know it's tough to call after almost three straight years of downward price action, but what do you guys think?
00:51:37.390 - 00:52:17.910, Speaker A: Yeah, I think part of the price action we've seen over the past couple weeks has been really kicked off by Comp specifically. Comp has been the outlier, and I think that was people anticipating the superstate drop from Leschner and a know partnership or some synergies between the two projects. And as a result, I think a lot of other projects sort of there was sort of like a beta trade on Comp specifically. And I think that drove a lot of the specific price action. But at the same time, like DFI 1.0, a lot of these projects are definitely primes because if you look at their charts, they've been basically down only mid 2021. It's been pretty sad to be honest.
00:52:17.910 - 00:53:34.770, Speaker A: Especially Maker has been hit pretty bad and Maker, especially as of recent, has gotten a lot of traction when it comes to onboarding RWAs having new loans. Like the Die savings rate is now over 3% and they're, I think, on pace for nine figures in profits over the next year, which is pretty incredible and I think has been overlooked simply based on the fact that people don't want to buy a token that's falling constantly over time. And so as a result, I think Maker specifically has bottomed at this point and is continuing to increase their revenues over time. Synthetix has pivoted a lot over the years, but they're another one that tops the charts constantly when it comes to applications generating revenue on a daily basis through their purpose product. So they're another great example of a D Five 1.0 project that's sort of been oversold and has like a clear roadmap towards profitability and you can point to a lot of these other projects as well as being in a similar boat. And I think it's a pretty funny coincidence that bear market timing does line up to Djen Spartans sort of timeline.
00:53:34.770 - 00:53:40.610, Speaker A: But yeah, I think D Five 1.0 is definitely poised for a comeback.
00:53:41.510 - 00:54:31.540, Speaker C: Yeah, I don't have the numbers right in front of me right now, but if you want to take like a fundamental approach, there's merit to that and also the reality of that not being the best metrics for crypto in its current state. But if that's what you are looking at on a price to fees or price to sales ratio, maker actually is one of the few protocols you could say was arguably undervalued. And to your point, Mike, they do have like a huge headwind in the end game. There are probably five people that truly understand what the end game is and those five people work for Maker. One of them is Rune, so there's really not that much clarity around it. But it could be a headwind, it could be a tailwind, it's really just too hard to say. So there could be some pricing of just execution risk there, to be completely honest.
00:54:31.540 - 00:55:10.958, Speaker C: But yeah, to Wesie's point, they're generating cash flows and that might be exciting at some point. There's a lot of talk in the crypto Twitter circles of course that cash flow is bearish, right? Because then you can actually price these things and turns out we actually don't like the prices that those turn into. But the reality is Maker was cheap relative to its peers, so I'm not too surprised it's catching a bid here. Ave kind of has this narrative of its stablecoin go coming out soon. The current status of that is like any day now, but to be fair, it's been any day now for a couple. Of weeks. Ave Companies has built the contracts, audited the contracts, they are good to go.
00:55:10.958 - 00:55:42.522, Speaker C: Ave Chan has handled the governance side of things. It's greenlit from both angles, just kind of honestly waiting for the on chain proposal. So there's a bit of alpha. Keep your eyes on the Ave governance contract for the Go proposal. But the thing that I'm finding interesting is a lot of these DFI 1.0 projects had genius teams that actually wanted to build a true DFI protocol that solved some sort of financial problem. And their teams never gave up during the bear market.
00:55:42.522 - 00:56:30.614, Speaker C: And so now they're two or three years into their life and they're putting out the best versions of those products. Again, we've seen Maker has created a fairly resilient stablecoin and they're continuing to improve on it, kind of migrating away from the PSM into a more like Amo model. And then you have Curve that updated their Dex contracts to the most advanced passive AMM model we've seen. And they've created a revolutionary lending protocol that kind of removes the need for or mitigates the need for a hard liquidation and kind of goes through this collateral conversion process. And you've seen Aave launching their own stablecoin. So you've seen this continued development from these large, well respected teams in the space, and they currently have the best products. Curve has the most TVL, second, most trading volume.
00:56:30.614 - 00:56:42.858, Speaker C: Uniswap's got the most trading volume launching Univ four. Ave has got the most borrow outstanding of any protocol. If there were assets to go buy in DFI, it doesn't shock me that these are the ones getting the true attention right now.
00:56:42.944 - 00:57:16.822, Speaker B: Yeah, I agree with that take. It's probably worth pointing out as well that some of the majors, Curve, Ave, Maker, they all seem to be converging on a similar business model. And it actually reminds me a little bit of there was a race in C Five back in 2019 or 2020 to build prime brokerage. And it started from a bunch of businesses, started from a very different vantage point. Some of them started from the perspective of lending the blockfis of the world. Some of them started from the perspective of custody, the bicos or the anchorages of the world. Some of them did Cap intro or whatever they did.
00:57:16.822 - 00:57:52.818, Speaker B: But everyone converged on this idea of prime brokerage. And you're starting to see a very similar sort of convergence within the business model for some of the DeFi majors. So Dai originally started, or Maker obviously started as a stablecoin. With Dai, Ave was exclusively borrowend. And now you're starting to see all of those models converge. And I think I am torn about how I think about this because I think in the one sense, it just depends on the organizational structure behind them. Because if you're a traditional sort of company, this makes all the sense in the world.
00:57:52.818 - 00:58:59.634, Speaker B: The bear case for looking at something like the DeFi protocols that exist today is you take sort of a nonprofit banks do a whole bunch of different things, right? Like an investment bank has a whole bunch of different functions. You could make the argument that something like Ave takes a very unprofitable part of that bank and just makes it a software and you're like, well, how exciting is that really? I'm not 100% sure. Banks are much more exciting when you have all of those different services bundled into one. So you can have certain services that can be loss leaders and then you can be net interest margin or kind of lead into some of the higher margin activities. On the other hand, you have to have a very rigid hierarchy and the actual corporate structure of a bank makes a lot of sense for that. Whereas one concern that I have, like the Dows that I kind of like are frankly the lidos that are trying to limit the surface area of what they do and minimize the decisions that governance can make. These protocols are going in the opposite direction of that and they're actually expanding their managerial surface area and they're expanding the amount of complexity that the Dow has to manage and that I could see the pros and cons for frankly, both sides of that argument.
00:58:59.634 - 00:59:03.306, Speaker B: And I think we just have to wait and time will tell how it all plays out.
00:59:03.408 - 00:59:38.342, Speaker C: That's an interesting point. It's just like governance overall, no one's figured that out. No one even has gotten close to figuring that out. It's kind of cool. We're seeing new ideas come to fruition, right? The idea of subdos is actually being executed on by MakerDAO. FRAX has been working on their FRAX gov which is like some sort of trade off between having a team that's using a multi SIG to really push forward change and innovation and actual execution, but having the token holders be like a gatekeeper to some critical level changes. That seems like a really cool model.
00:59:38.342 - 01:00:05.038, Speaker C: And so we're kind of seeing some interesting exploration there. But I think I tend to agree that less governance is better. It's just like that's one of those things that it needs to be an end state that you build towards, not like somewhere you start at like, hey ungovernance, we're a no governance protocol. Okay, well, we're a rapidly growing industry and you're going to need to make some changes in the current state. But I like the end goal of kind of reducing overall governance and I.
01:00:05.044 - 01:00:53.002, Speaker B: Think that the final thing to add. There's probably a sort of stack which depends on how close you are to the base layer infrastructure. Like if you consider Ethereum sort of the base layer infrastructure and it's trying to create like a money or commodity that powers smart contracts, then maybe the next layer up is what Ethereum has decided to outsource but are still critical functions for Ethereum. So that could be block building in the form of swab and flashbots, that could be liquid staking in the form of Lido, that could be restaking in the form of Eigen layer. But those things, it's not actually antithetical to making a good product, but decentralization is a requirement for the product actually. And then maybe one layer up from that would be like borrow, lend and DEXes and then maybe there'd be games on the top. And let's be honest, no one really cares if these games don't need to be as decentralized as Ethereum here.
01:00:53.002 - 01:01:31.880, Speaker B: Those are games, it doesn't matter as much. So I think it also depends on where you sit in the overall stack as well. One last thing I'd love to get your take on, guys. So Lido recently passed a proposal to transition a bunch of its Ethereum and its treasury to Steeth. So on the one hand I could see this being know Steeth is yield bearing. So that's some extra, essentially net interest that Lido's Treasury is earning that it wasn't earning before. On the other hand, a treasury is supposed to be a rainy day fund and you'd really need that treasury if there was a problem with Steeth itself.
01:01:31.880 - 01:01:46.206, Speaker B: So it seems like you might be taking out a little bit of unnecessary risk there. But then at the same time, if there was some kind of catastrophic slashing event with Steeth, probably all that ethan, the treasury isn't going to help anyway. So I think you're a skip. What are your guys takes on this?
01:01:46.308 - 01:02:22.950, Speaker C: I think your last point hits the nail on the head, like quickly pulling it up. Lido has 14 and a half billion dollars of TVL. I think the proposals correct me if I'm wrong, but I think the proposals for $20 million of Treasury ETH to be converted to steth close to covering you. Plus, if something critical happened to stake ETH, lido is probably toast anyways. So I don't hate the going all in on your own token thing in this case. This is a bit of like dog fooding. It like, hey, we're doing it with our treasury you should too kind of thing maybe.
01:02:22.950 - 01:02:37.680, Speaker C: But more so it's just like, look, if we put $20 million in there and we can earn 5% a year, we can actually pay our core team off of staked ETH yield. And that would be kind of a cool thing to do with that. So I think it actually makes sense. I like the idea.
01:02:39.170 - 01:03:27.758, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I'm for the most part for it, but I think Mikey brought up a great point and it's like, what is the ETH in the treasury supposed to be used for? Is it supposed to be a rainy day fund where if Steeth falls below Peg you can use that ETH to basically bid up Steeth back to Peg? If so, then you want ETH new treasury and not Steeth. But I'm guessing that most of the treasury is going to be used to pay for devs or for certain initiatives, et cetera. And so having it in Steeth I think is fine. Yeah, it kind of increases their risk of a slashing event, but really not enough for it to be an issue because they're already sort of taking that on as a protocol. So as a whole, I don't think it's a bad proposal. I think it's pretty good. But if it were me, I'd be a little more cautious, maybe like 80% stakes and 20% not.
01:03:27.758 - 01:03:30.014, Speaker A: But yeah, overall not too bad.
01:03:30.052 - 01:03:31.710, Speaker C: What's your take on this, Mike?
01:03:32.210 - 01:04:30.702, Speaker B: I don't know. Nobody runs these treasuries how I would run them, so I guess I'm just not thinking the same. I think the treasury is the one thing you don't want to take even and ounce of risk on and it's actually kind of similarly to how I think about my holdings of ETH versus staked ETH. This was the analogy that I had with Blockfly as well, which is if you think that the asset that you're holding is going to appreciate it's high risk asset. So might appreciate ten to 20 X over the course of the next five years or something like that on a conservative estimate for some of these assets, are you going to add an additional layer of smart contract risk that I can't diligence at all for an extra 3% per year? I know Warren Buffett would get his calculator out and tell me how much money I'm losing by not doing that, but that's just not how my brain works. And I don't know. I would run things a lot more conservatively if you waved a magic wand and I was in charge of everyone's treasuries.
01:04:30.702 - 01:04:55.514, Speaker B: It would basically all be in. I would make the assets mass liabilities, which is also why I like ETH, because if there was ever some sort of slashing event, even a more minor one, and you had to do a payout or you had to defend the peg, I think you could actually make a really good case for ETH sitting in lido's treasuries. But if you're almost any other protocol, I'm sitting in basically 100% USDC. I think that's just the safe thing.
01:04:55.552 - 01:05:19.700, Speaker C: To do because you actually got in my head about that. I had most of my ETH staked as staked ETH and then you got in my head about that and I'm like, what am I doing? Of course the other half of mine is like time locked for a year in convex in FRAX ETH. So the complete other end of the spectrum. So I'm like, all right, maybe we meet one half on the zero risk side and one half on the max risk side.
01:05:20.070 - 01:05:39.826, Speaker B: You know what though? It's a good reminder that this time when you don't feel like taking risk is the time to take risk. The time to be bearish was 18 months ago. That was the time to be bearish. This is not the time to be bearish. You want to be bullish in this period of time? Maybe that's a good thought to end it on. Not financial. None of this is financial advice.
01:05:39.826 - 01:05:56.826, Speaker B: For the love of God. And guys, if you're listening to this on the bell curve thief, definitely head over to zero x research because these guys are unbiased. But these guys are awesome, and they dump out some alpha every single week consistently. So definitely head over and check them out at blockworks research as yeah, we'll.
01:05:56.858 - 01:06:06.654, Speaker C: Put a link in the show notes to the blockworks research fresh new landing page. Shout out to Dennis. Our really, really went above and beyond on that one, but yeah. Mike, it's been fun, man.
01:06:06.692 - 01:06:07.278, Speaker B: Thank you.
01:06:07.364 - 01:06:08.270, Speaker A: This was fun, guys.
01:06:08.340 - 01:06:09.100, Speaker B: Thanks for joining me.
