00:00:18.970 - 00:01:06.320, Speaker A: So my name is Dormantic Williams and I'm introducing Phi, which is a decentralized commercial banking system that creates a stable currency. As a side effect, it gives out loans algorithmically and creates a stable currency. Now, let me just work this out. Nope. So before we look at Fi, let's just recap the problems with commercial banks quickly. So commercial banks have massive infrastructure costs, HR, buildings, compliance, that kind of thing. And all of these enormous costs in commercial banking end up on your loan interest and financial charges.
00:01:06.320 - 00:02:02.272, Speaker A: They kind of make chronically bad judgments when they're giving out loans. And this is one of the things that exacerbates the credit cycle, which is very damaging to the world economy. And of course, the big example was 2008 when we had this massive deleveraging that cost the world trillions of dollars. They also are a major threat to civil liberties because as money becomes more digitized, if your access to the banking system is removed, you're pretty much just frozen out of everything. And actually, many people in crypto have already experienced what it's like to have bank accounts shut down because you've been taken a transfer from an exchange or something like that. So, stablecoins, let's just recap that quickly. There are two main approaches to stablecoins currently around at the moment.
00:02:02.272 - 00:02:50.844, Speaker A: The first is something a bit like make or die, where you have collateral on chain market makers, margin calls, that kind of thing. Problem with these kind of approaches is that they're inherently unstable. You create a kind of Rube Goldberg device and when you put it under stress, it'll tend to fail. The other approach is to use tokens as bearish shares, colored coin bearish shares, with collateral actually held in a bank or other financial institution. Now, that does succeed in producing a kind of stable, robust system. But of course, the problem is the banks will want to dictate policy in relation to how these coins are used. People and contracts will have to be authorized.
00:02:50.844 - 00:03:29.592, Speaker A: And of course, you add in the geography of the bank and the jurisdiction of the bank into what would otherwise be a very much extra national system. So quickly, fiat money. Fiat money is what we use every day. It's dollars, Euros, RMB, and not many people are aware of where it comes from, but it's actually created by commercial banks when they give out loans. So the way this works is that you go into a bank and say, I want to borrow $10,000. And if they approve the loan, all they do is flip some bits in a database to create the $10,000 from thin air. You get it on the bank's balance sheet.
00:03:29.592 - 00:04:18.312, Speaker A: The loan is an asset and the money they created is a liability. So what is Fiat money? Fiat money, everyday money is really an IOU. It's backed by the collateral of loans. That means that everyday money is backed by cars, houses, business, cash flows, personal guarantees, that kind of thing. So the AHA moment is, okay, well, why don't we make the world computer give out loans algorithmically and create a stable currency backed by loan collateral? Right? We'll kill two birds with 1 st. We won't need these expensive commercial banks anymore. So we'll save the world a lot of money and we'll also get this wonderful stable currency that won't depend on intermediaries.
00:04:18.312 - 00:04:56.090, Speaker A: So phi money is exactly the same as fiat money. It's backed by loan collateral. How might this work? Well, first of all, it involves a network of validators. This is a bit like a proof of state network where the validators are really kind of loan miners, if you will. Anyone can become a validator and you do it by making a security deposit to the computer. In this case, the validator has deposited $50,000 and he can validate loans up to $5,000 in size. And the total aggregate amount of those loans can be up to half a million dollars.
00:04:56.090 - 00:06:02.430, Speaker A: So how does a computer issue loans? Well, first of all, the person who wants the loan approaches a validator and says, hey, I want a loan. If that validator agrees, they become the proposer. They create a loan application package using open source software and they commit to it with a hash and they tell the computer, hey, I want to propose a loan. The computer then randomly, at this point, randomly selects another validator and says, look, can you encrypt that loan package to the public key of the next validator? Right? That next validator then becomes a checker. They look at the loan proposal and so on in a chain which is decided algorithmically until the computer decides that the loan application has been validated. Once the loan application has been validated, the computer creates the phi from thin air and gives it to the borrower. And bear with me for a moment and you'll see why the fi that's created out of the thin air actually has value.
00:06:02.430 - 00:07:42.190, Speaker A: So this chain of validators, the thing to remember is that it's randomly selected in sequence and it'll depend upon the size of the deposits of the validators and their reputation and things like that. Why do the validators do this? Well, when people repay their loans, it generates interest and the computer gives a share of that interest to the validators, right? So we might imagine that in this example, the proposer gets 60% of that interest because he'd put in the work creating the loan application in the first place. The two checkers get 20%. There's another side to this, which is that they're also underwriters, right? So if the borrower fails to make a repayment, the computer is going to take that repayment from the deposits of the validators, right? So we can imagine that the underwriting is in the same proportion as the rewards and their reputation is also a risk. So this is how interest is generated. Let's imagine I borrowed $10,000 and I've got to pay it back in ten monthly installments of one $100. Well, I get $100 worth of phi, pay it back to the computer, the computer burns $1,000, which is the principal, right? Just burns it and it created it out of thin air in the first place, right? And the $100 interest is then distributed amongst the originating validators and also savers and investors who've placed Fi at mean, I've oversimplified this whole system, but intuitively this will give you a grasp of why phi has value even though it's conjured from thin air.
00:07:42.190 - 00:09:38.200, Speaker A: When somebody receives a loan, let's say I receive $10,000 in phi, they're going to place it onto a cryptocurrency exchange to get fiat that they can spend, right? So I've got $10,000 in phi and I put a 10,000 phi sell order onto the exchange. But meanwhile, there are other people who've already borrowed phi and are paying back their loans and they have to buy phi in order to pay back the computer. And in fact, you can see that the demand for phi will be greater than the supply, right, because people are paying things back with interest. So when I borrow $10,000, I get $10,000 worth of phi, but actually I've got to pay back $11,000 worth of Fi, right? So we end up with a system that doesn't involve banks, which gives out loans, creates a stable currency. The last remaining question might be, well, what stops somebody just taking a loan, getting their $10,000 worth of Fi and just walking away? The computer can't chase them, right? The way that works is when they applied for the loan, the validator will have made them sign a contract that says if you don't pay back the computer, the computer is going to take the missing repayment from my deposit and consequently I'll lose money. And so you will owe me that money. So if somebody doesn't repay the computer, they can activate this contract and the borrower then has a debt directly to the validator and the validator can just use existing debt recovery systems which are widely available worldwide.
00:09:38.200 - 00:10:02.970, Speaker A: So I'll post this deck online on my Twitter if anyone wants to look at it at their leisure. I'm from a company called String Labs. We've got two projects at the moment. One is Phi, another one is called Affinity, which is a kind of business oriented blockchain which has some new cryptography and thing called the Blockchain Nervous System we're presenting on Saturday. Feel free to catch up with me later if you've got any questions. Thanks.
