00:00:06.970 - 00:00:43.414, Speaker A: I'm Ilya. I'm co founder of Nier Protocol and CEO of Pagoda. And today I want to talk about how to build decentralized composable front ends and kind of really accelerate how fast you build and how fast you can actually ship things to your users. So just a little bit about Nier. We started in 18 as a blockchain a layer one we launched in 2020. And since then we've really been trying to empower developers. Kind of me and kind of all of our group really believes that developers, entrepreneurs, makers are ones who actually bring Web Three to the users.
00:00:43.414 - 00:02:11.462, Speaker A: And so we want to give the best tools to everyone who's building. And so throughout 2022 we've been building a lot of developer, platform, kind of data stack and a lot of other things. And this year we've kind of positioned this set of tools that we're building as blockchain operating system, right? And this is all in the goal of achieving billion users in Web Three broadly. So what is blockchain operating system? It's really a common layer to discover and experience kind of applications in open web and main and important thing, especially for this, is compatible with any blockchain. So what problems is it solving? First of all, we all know like I mean, here we are in Web Three because we want to solve a lot of Web Two problems, right? The censorship of Web Two, the problems with user retention and discovery, the problems with launching on App Store, lack of data ownership, lack of privacy. At the same time, web Three itself comes with a lot of challenges, right? We have a very fragmented ecosystem, right? Each blockchain has its own kind of set of applications and have very little in interconnectivity. Discoverability of new applications is extremely hard, right? Finding what actually apps are launched and live real, not trying to rug cool, it's pretty hard reengagement, right? Somebody came in, started using your apps, you have no idea how to reach them again.
00:02:11.462 - 00:03:22.718, Speaker A: You have no idea how to kind of bring them back when a new feature launched or the bug that they stumbled upon got fixed. And there's a set of common problems, right? Just like as the systems grow, the complexity of building and operating them is growing as well. So blockchain every system is really trying to address all of this in a cohesive way and give you tooling to do this and do it all in decentralized and user own way. So kind of the way it does it by having a set of layers, blockchain layers, middleware user interfaces and kind of onboarding wallets layer. So diving in a little bit deeper, what this means is you have kind of blockchains on the bottom, right? So this is where your identity, your kind of money and ownership, kind of the trust of the whole system we're building in Web Three is laying. But blockchain is not everything, right? You cannot fit everything into that and there's a whole layer of indexers, streamers, notifications, search, relayers that needs to exist to really provide the experience that we're all used to from Web Two. So this is what we call data platform.
00:03:22.718 - 00:04:39.430, Speaker A: This is where kind of all of the abstraction of the different blockchains happens and at the same time kind of all the common services for really powering kind of normal user experience, right? You should be able to type in that you want to play a game and find what are the games in web Three exist, right? So this is where Kansas layer lives now. The new layer we introduced, we call it Discovery. And this is actually a different way of building applications, front ends in itself. And so the way it works is you actually take the front end kind of componentize, it right similar how you do it in react or in view and you put each component independently on the blockchain. So in a way, what we did with front end here is what Smart Contracts did with services, with web services, right? We put them on a blockchain, we made them uncensorable, unstoppable, always accessible and very composable, right? Because now each atomic piece, right, a swap, an NFT, a feed of social posts can exist on its own and can be embedded anywhere. And I'll show how all of this works. But this is just a protocol, right? All of these are protocols that really define how data flows and how it shows.
00:04:39.430 - 00:05:38.994, Speaker A: And you need a place where all of this has been combined. And so what we call those things gateways. So gateway is something where it pretty much you go there, it's either an app, a website, a browser or a wallet. And this is where it loads all of this and shows you exactly as a user what you want and depending on your account allows you to interact with it, right? So this can be kind of a variety of things and it still works with any of the wallets, like MetaMask, cloud, connect. It can be wallet itself that does it, right? You can actually have rich experiences inside the wallet that are rendered directly from blockchain. I'll show how it all works. So conceptually what we're trying to solve here is that when you were choosing to build in Web Three, you kind of forced yourself into having very little distribution, right? Like in Web Three we're all trying to find more users and the users in silos across the ecosystem.
00:05:38.994 - 00:06:40.730, Speaker A: And so what we're doing with blockchain operating system is really removing the straight off, right? We're saying decentralization actually leads to more distribution because there will be more places where the same experiences, the same applications will be accessible. Now instead of uniswap just being on uniswap.com or it now is accessible on every place, on every wallet, in any app that supports this blockchain operating system. And it's industry, it's mobile web, you can run it locally on your laptop. It's data belongs to the user or to developer who built this. And you have kind of this new layer of discoverability and kind of common user base that spans across all of these applications. What does this mean for kind of enterprises? Right? Existing applications? Well, it allows you to grow existing website or an app, right? You can take existing application or a website that you already have and you can embed all of this web3 experiences directly into it.
00:06:40.730 - 00:07:53.666, Speaker A: You don't need to kind of hire a huge web3 team to build this rebuild your website. You can just embed that directly into it's easy onboarding for users and it's really kind of smooth experience that you can integrate with your already existing web two. And it's multi chain, right? So you don't need to choose like, oh, I'm going to build on near or I'm going to build on Ethereum, but is Ethereum going to have high fees? You can actually use all of the smart contracts from the right chain at the right time, right? I need an Ft that already exists on Ethereum. I can throw for example, loyalty points on near and I can use all that with one UI, which doesn't really care which smart contracts are used at what time. As a user for developers, for you here in the room, it's kind of build once and use everywhere, right? Like you build this component once and now it's accessible everywhere. Muconi in JavaScript and you can clone from thousands. There's like over 4000 components already since we launched this like two months ago, that you can just really start reusing it's distribution, right? Again, the problem in web3 that we have, we all build really cool stuff and then people are not finding, not using it.
00:07:53.666 - 00:09:14.734, Speaker A: So here people can find us through search, people can find us through social, we can start sharing it and users already onboarded through whatever gateway they're using. They don't need to relog in trust again, that this website is not trying to steal all my money, and no hosting, no infrastructure, you just launch once and start using. And finally, for individuals, it's a place where they can do commerce, they can start burning, they can find people to collaborate with, to engage with groups, et cetera. So it kind of merges the commerce, the social and kind of all the finance that we've been doing. So the main benefit is it's all live, right? So this is all live and we have launched a featured gateway which is near, but there's also already a bunch of other gateways you can access this with. And so the first thing it starts with, if you go right down to near and try to create account, is the fastest onboarding on the web, right? So it's using this new technology that Google, Microsoft and Apple actually launched. It's accessible on all the browsers and it's using on device cryptography to create your account and you use email to do recovery with MPC and over time you can actually set up social recovery and any other types of recovery that you need.
00:09:14.734 - 00:09:53.574, Speaker A: So this takes about 5 seconds to set up. You'd never see any hashes, you never see any seed phrases and it's using your Biometrics or Pin code on your phone or on your laptop. So it is as fast as it can be. It's faster than figuring out a password that needs to have some characters. Then you land on kind of this common experience. So right now near the is most is its social developer environment, right? Again we're focusing on developers and empowering them. And so we have kind of a combination of social interactions and developers posting updates and kind of some of the projects posting updates.
00:09:53.574 - 00:10:59.484, Speaker A: We have also featured components which you can think of as App Store. You can discover apps and so we can actually switch to the left version of this. So if you go to Discover, right, you can see all of the components. There's over 4200 already and it's everything from NFT views, trees, kind of like elemental pieces, to full on applications that span games, chats, financial like Liquid Staking, kind of developer tooling and many more. So it kind of allows you to have a full thing. You can also have so check out Developer Hub because this is where kind of developers meet social, right, and decide what to develop on next and kind of propose ideas and just kind of get funding, get grants through a Developer hub. Now the cool thing about it is at any point of time when you looking at something, you can look how it's implemented.
00:10:59.484 - 00:11:46.480, Speaker A: So if you go to develop mode, you can see the exact source code of the component you're looking at. And so that's really powerful because it means you can at any point fork what you're looking at and start playing with it. Right? So let's say I go to my profile. So this is profile page. You can also see the dependencies that it has. So the different component, other components it uses, right? And so you say like, okay cool, I like this profile page but it's missing something, right? And so you can go to a develop mode and you can see like here's a source code, I can render it right away. By the way, there's a Visual Studio extension if you don't like in browser development that gives you exactly the same form.
00:11:46.480 - 00:12:32.206, Speaker A: And as you do this, you can save and publish right away from here. So Publish actually puts it on a blockchain and publishes under your name all of this. If you on board right now, you actually don't need to pay any fees. So the underlying infrastructure covers the fees on the blockchain for that. So you see like okay, this is cool, but I think there's something missing here. Right, I think I want to have another component here. And so you can just add a widget which is how you link to another component and you just pretty much need to type in its URL.
00:12:32.206 - 00:13:30.114, Speaker A: So URL is like when you navigate to for example lido component, right? How you state ethereum. The URL is this path of a username and the name of the component that you use. So you can just paste this I want to see lido here and boom, you have a lido component inside my profile page, right? So this is how easy it is to start combining things. You can iterate and change things. For example, for lido you can again go and check out the source code and there's a chain ID here defined smart contracts that's used, et cetera. You can fork it, you can modify it. So you have kind of a whole experience here that you can interact with and the cool thing about it is you have search now that indexes all of these applications indexes users and it's kind of expanding this across other blockchains right now that you can start interacting.
00:13:30.114 - 00:14:30.038, Speaker A: So like if you're looking for something to swap right, there's SushiSwap, which actually was probably a fork of lido component somebody modified which smart contract to use. So you have all of these experiences really tied in in one place. But as I said, this is just one gateway. All right, so here is another gateway, it's Boss GG and so this runs exactly the same code, it's just parameterized differently, right? Like you can actually run your own gateway on Versaille in about five minutes, which the five minutes it takes Vercel to build everything. And if you run it, you can specify the steam, the design, you can change the homepage, right? So this homepage is very different from the homepage we were just looking at which was social. This is just apps that build at hackathon but you can open the same lido component here, right? It's the same path on the top and you see exactly the same thing. So that's the idea that you build the component once and it's now accessible across every single place this blockchain operating system is installed.
00:14:30.038 - 00:15:34.782, Speaker A: So that's why one of the reasons we call it operating system because it follows very similar pattern where as a developer now you don't need to think about distribution. The distribution is achieved by pre installing this operating system in all those places and you really develop the app and then kind of gain usage from there. So another example just to show is ZkSync. So this is actually a ZK sync example if we switch to it with a swap and bridging to era. And so you can have kind of if you log in as MetaMask here, you can have a well if you approve stuff, kind of the full ZK sync experience and so you can keep building, right? Again, you can always go view source code, see what's going on here, and decide that like, well, actually Zkvm is cool too. Maybe I want to build this for Zkvm and start iterating from there. So really kind of pushing away from a web two.
00:15:34.782 - 00:16:27.866, Speaker A: We used still front ends in web3. That very much web two, right? Running web server needed a main, making sure that it's secure, that nobody hacked it. Like what happened with Curve last year, where the front end got compromised and so all the transactions were compromised. So this actually creates also a level of isolation because every component is isolated in the security sense. So there's a lot of things here I'll just kind of walk through just to we talk to all this. What would be like a cool example that you can build this weekend? Imagine you're a fictional hacker that building a fitness project, right? And so fitness is about social engagement and individual. It's about kind of how do we reengage people and bring them back to the interaction.
00:16:27.866 - 00:17:29.490, Speaker A: It's about motivating them and really creating a business around that as well. And so there's four steps to building a business, right? First you test the hypothesis. So first you want how quickly can you learn if this is the right thing and you can actually find that right thing that people are engaged with. And so the cool thing here is as you're kind of navigating through this blockchain of your system, you see different interesting things. You're like, oh, there is an NFT Minter here, there's a social feed there. And you can pull it all together really quickly from these components and just make it your own with redesigning them, right? So you create accounts, you see Mintbase, which is NFT marketplace and kind of they have NFT Minter called Minsta. And you take the code, modify it a little bit to mint badges and boom, you have minter of badges for your fitness app, right? So that's idea like and I showed you fork it, start kind of changing the code.
00:17:29.490 - 00:18:02.590, Speaker A: The API is pretty much react and you have access to all the blockchain tooling you need. So it's fastest way to prototype an idea to get to some hackathon level kind of product and then start showing it to people. Because it's already published, it's already on chain. Everybody's accessing it already. You can put it on the social feed, people will see it. You can go on Twitter and other socials to attract attention to this. And people can start signing up, can discuss this.
00:18:02.590 - 00:18:52.640, Speaker A: So on every component app, there's a discussion. So you can think of it as like feedback form and you can share links, right? And so there's one more component of this called Keepon, where you can actually share a link that directly contains an NFT. So as they click on this link, they will actually go create account and receive NFT from that. So you can start creating more complex onboarding experiences which already include some interaction with blockchain. And so you can start sharing this, emailing them and notification. So I showed you how the fastos works. So really kind of onboarding people extremely quickly, very web two like experience, but having all of the cryptography underneath to power the kind of interaction with blockchain and you're kind of just building this really engaging experiences to lend people on it.
00:18:52.640 - 00:20:19.878, Speaker A: Finally I showed you search so people can find these things. Again, search is really powerful, there will be recommendations but also nowadays a lot of the interaction are happening through the social, right? So really important is to continue kind of interacting and posting on social. The one thing we're planning to launch is the social feed itself will actually be able to embed components and so you'll be able to embed existing experience like an NFT, like an active NFT, like with buttons and things for example into the social feed as you post, right? This is something that Twitter or any other kind of web two socials are not able to do. So more efficient way to acquire users and kind of you have built in feedback, right? People can interact on discussions, you can onboard new users that don't have any crypto and kind of start earning first NFTs, maybe start earning first crypto and multi points and there's other ways to discover these applications and finally you want to retain users, right? So retention is one of the hardest things not just in web3 but in web two as well. And so you really want to get people to kind of transact and subscribe. So the benefit here is you can kind of again social is already embedded, you have all the APIs and importantly you can start doing notifications, right? So you can start doing push notifications to the user. User can manage that on their side, like what notifications they want to receive.
00:20:19.878 - 00:20:58.978, Speaker A: But this way you can pretty much re engage user as there's new things happening in your app or with their account itself. The cool thing about this, this all works in mobile web and this is first time pretty much especially on Apple side, you can actually do this in mobile web. They just launched that last year. The benefit is Apple allowed it on mobile web and they may not allow all the crypto apps on App Store. So you're actually able to build the app level experience inside mobile web now. And so this is an example and kind of the toolkit for you to do that I mentioned. You can deploy on gateway.
00:20:58.978 - 00:22:35.250, Speaker A: So there's actually a link, you can just click on it and it will deploy on gateway and then you can configure parameters with a clone on GitHub. But also there's a component for that and so boom, you have now your own Fit app isit app which renders the same thing, right? You just customize the menu and the home page now to be your fitness kind of app interaction. So you went from like I built a component, I lended some people on a full Sled page and then boom, I built it on my website without actually writing any of that code, right? Like writing all of that underlying kind of scaffolding of how to link accounts, how to build all the linkage, all the data processing that needs to happen underneath. So increase retention, ways to reengage users and really kind of customizations you could do, you can also serve it through IPFS on ENS domain as well, right? So you have like a full decentralized stack used as well. And so now that you have it fully done and you know how to engage users, you want to grow the market, right? And so here you have abilities to go multi chain and kind of expand with, partner with other projects, build other experiences and geographies, right? So imagine you have for example some of the NFTs on Ethereum that you can actually engage and link with your app. And so you can have this cross linkage between multiple chains in one place. You can work with other apps.
00:22:35.250 - 00:23:50.042, Speaker A: So existing applications like Sweatcoin which has millions of users, you can pretty much engage with them. They can either render it directly in or they can kind of send out to your app as you're partnering with them and you can scale geographically. So there will be internationalization added to this, right? Which really going to power that as other people running gateways in their local geographies for example, customize for that language and for that culture, they can actually have your apps directly embedded there. So work with any chain, extend to any experience and a lot of the pieces are reusable and kind of can be scaled from there. So this is what we call kind of community commerce, right, is really engaging social digital kind of assets and value and kind of participation in one place, right? The Dows, the marketplaces, all the things we're building in Web Three is really powering that. And so you can go from hypothesis to kind of a hackathon project to an app to engage with users to really start building a business and growing and partnering on this platform and kind of grow it from there. And just finally to mention one more thing is we just launched near Horizon.
00:23:50.042 - 00:24:58.370, Speaker A: So this is actually an app built inside the blockchain operating system as well. And if you go to or you just search for it, it's near Slash Horizon, you can actually see kind of the platform that's designed to really help startups to find broadly speaking contributors, right? So this is everything from developers, market agencies, legal agency to investors and kind of advisors and supporters, right? And so the idea really to kind of create one single place where all the people in the ecosystem can meet and start helping each other to grow each other startup and project. And so there's like a few features already launched and more launching. The important part actually is there will be credits as well. So as you onboard, you can receive some credits to get services from like a marketing agency or legal agency to set up your company or have marketed your project. So this allows to kind of really bootstrap and this works for any blockchain, right? Again, it's not really specific to near ecosystem. Near blockchain ecosystem.
00:24:58.370 - 00:25:33.590, Speaker A: So try it out, try to build. Would love to hear your feedback. You can leave feedback directly on social there. There's actually a support line as well that you can use. It's just near the Dork sign up. It's not that hard, but you can pretty much build applications, use Ethereum apps or any L2s as well. Right there you can have decentralized front end that's not going to be censored or stop running.
00:25:33.590 - 00:26:10.974, Speaker A: You don't need to pay for hosting to start with and you can really kind of get usage and distribution from there. So again, Nier started as a blockchain originally, but it's not a blockchain, not just a blockchain anymore. Right. It's a lot of different tooling and pieces that come together to really provide kind of solve developer and enterprise use cases and problems. And that's why we're calling the blockchain operating system. The system where you can come in and really rely on to allow you to build your business and your applications. Thank you and yeah, love to chat with you.
00:26:10.974 - 00:26:12.300, Speaker A: Who's interested to learn more.
