00:00:00.320 - 00:00:22.470, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Deadly Way refuel, where we cap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cesano, and today's the 25 November 2021. All right everyone, today is a very, very special day for the refuel. It is the one year anniversary. I have been doing this, you know, every weekday since November 25. So obviously the episode name is not number 365 because I don't do them on weekends.
00:00:22.470 - 00:00:56.878, Speaker A: But yeah, I think I've only missed two days in the whole kind of like last year and then I made up for it on, on the weekend and did an extra episode there. So it has been a very, very long and fun journey with all of you. The channel's grown bigger than I thought it would. The Discord channel's grown so big. I love the community that we've been able to cultivate around Ethereum and the entire Ethereum kind of ecosystem and how I kind of like cover it through the daily Gwey. So to celebrate, I have a special little thing that I'm going to show a trailer for in a second. It's something that I've worked on with a good friend of mine.
00:00:56.878 - 00:01:45.390, Speaker A: You'll recognize the name in the trailer, but I'll come back in a second, explain it to you. So for now, enjoy the trailer. Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey refuel where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano. Alright everyone, let's get into the news. Another big day in Ethereum land. All right, I hope you guys enjoyed that trailer.
00:01:45.390 - 00:02:21.360, Speaker A: As you saw, there is going to be an NFT that immortalizes this room that I've been in, you know, since doing the refill. I mean, I've been in this room for such a long time. It has been since I was basically like three years old I've lived in this house. And you know, when I became a teenager, this kind of like study became like my gaming room and I played a lot of kind of video games in here. And then ever since then kind of like just morphed into basically the place where I, where I live and I've lived for a very long time now. So, you know, I contacted Kiddair who's a really good friend of mine, and I said hey, let's do an NFT for celebrating the one year anniversary. It was actually mostly his idea as well.
00:02:21.360 - 00:02:45.424, Speaker A: I mean he's like, yeah, this would be cool to do it on the one year because I wanted to do a daily Gwei NFT. But he said, you know, this would be really cool to do it on the one year anniversary and kind of like, let's, let's make something really, really awesome about it. So I think it came out absolutely amazing. There's so many Easter eggs in it. I'm going to be teasing it until kind of like the NFT goes live, which, as you saw in the trailer, will be on December 6. More details about it will be coming out soon. Kind of like the mint cost and everything like that.
00:02:45.424 - 00:03:25.722, Speaker A: But you also saw in the trailer that all of the proceeds are, sorry, 80% of the proceeds are going to be core developers, Ethereum core developers. Now the way this works is that kid and I did a 50 50 split on the, on the revenue that is going to be generated by this NFT. And kid is taking 20% as a commission for all the hard work that he did on this NFT. I mean, it took him quite a while to do this. You can see the detail in it through the trailer, and then once the NFT comes out, you'll be able to see even more detail about it. He worked really long and hard on this, so, you know, he's taking a 20% cut just for his work, but then the other 30% he's done of his share, he's donating to Ethereum core development and I'm donating my entire 50% to Ethereum core development. I don't want to profit from this.
00:03:25.722 - 00:04:09.304, Speaker A: I, you know, I just think it's a fun little thing to do. I think it's an awesome thing that, you know, you guys can get your hands on as well to kind of like commemorate this, this awesome occasion. And I really, you know, as I've discussed in the past before, I'm really big on funding ETH core devs and obviously, as the pros, as the minting is going to be done with ETH, this ETH is going to go to them directly. There's not going to be dollars. They're going to have ETH and they can hold on to it and do whatever they want with it in order to kind of like get further exposure as ETH increases in price. And this isn't going to be the last NFT that, that I do. I'm going to be doing more in the future and, and I'm probably going to pretty much going to donate all the proceeds always to maybe not always core development, but other kind of public goods within Ethereum, obviously, gitcoin and stuff like that as well, because that's what I'm super, super passionate about.
00:04:09.304 - 00:04:33.076, Speaker A: But yeah, with the NFT, you obviously get an immortalization of this room. And another, the second thing I wanted to actually announce today is that this room is going to be looking a lot more sparse over the next few weeks because I bought a house. I'm going to be moving soon into my own house with my own room. It's a much bigger room than what I have now. This is like a tiny shoebox. So I'm super excited about that. But because of that, obviously, I have to move all this stuff.
00:04:33.076 - 00:05:13.980, Speaker A: So you're going to be seeing like figurines disappear behind me. You know, as the refills go on for the next few weeks, you're going to be seeing the cabinets disappear. And then pretty much on the last refuel before I move into, into the new plays, there's just going to be like a blank room. So this NFT works to immortalize this room both for, obviously, myself and for all of you loyal daily Gwei fans out there. And we decided to do 365 editions, obviously for one edition for each day of the week. Obviously that's not going to be enough if all of the thousands of viewers wanted kind of like to mint one of the Daily Gwei. But unfortunately, you know, we kind of had, I mean, not unfortunately, but we kind of like went back and forth, kid and I, about this and we figured, you know, we don't want to have like too many out there and we don't want it to make it too exclusive.
00:05:13.980 - 00:05:46.976, Speaker A: But we do want the kind of like loyal supporters to have a, have a chance at owning kind of like this NFT. And obviously it can be traded on secondary markets and things like that. But I don't expect it to have like a speculative premium. It really is just a thing to, you know, one, you get to basically support Ethereum core development and two, you get like an NFT that immortalizes in this room and you basically, you know, get to get to have like a bit of memorabilia. So, yeah, I hope you hope you like that. And, you know, if you want to watch the trailer again, you can just go back and rewind the video. But I'll be posting more details about this on Twitter within the next 24 hours.
00:05:46.976 - 00:06:18.058, Speaker A: And then, as I said, I'll be teasing kind of like things from the NFT on the refuel, you know, over the next few weeks until the minting happens. Uh, so yeah, celebrating one year anniversary. Uh, I'm glad to have you all with me and I hope to have you all with me for another year. It's been a super exciting one, and I'm sure it's going to be even more exciting as we go into the new year of 2022. So on that note, onto the updates from the last 24 hours. So we burned a million ETH yesterday. So we burned 1 million ETH within 109 days, which is absolutely incredible.
00:06:18.058 - 00:06:46.098, Speaker A: I mean, right now, if we take the price of ETH, which is, what, $4,400? Around about that. That is $4.4 billion worth of ETH that has been burned in 199 days, which is less than one third of a year, basically. So if you annualize that out, we're burning over 3 million ETH a year right now, which is absolutely crazy. Like, that's a crazy amount of ETH. And then imagine if we had, like, the merge already in place, and ETH would be, like, net deflationary all the time, which is absolutely crazy. So great to see this.
00:06:46.098 - 00:07:10.614, Speaker A: I know there was a bit of drama, you know, after Suzu put out his tweet about, like, ethereum celebrating the burn and not caring about users. But, um, I thought that was kind of, like, really stupid. Obviously, that tweet and I went over that the other day. But the funny thing is, is that celebrating the burn and scaling Ethereum are not mutually exclusive. We're doing both, right? Like, we're. We're celebrating the burn because of the various reasons. I'm not going to go through them all here, but we're celebrating it for various reasons.
00:07:10.614 - 00:07:29.114, Speaker A: But we're also scaling Ethereum. We know that the high fees on layer one are shit for end users. We've never said they're good for end users, but high aggregate fees. Fees are good. Like, high fees generated by a network are really, really good. High individual fees are bad. So how do we fix that? Well, we have a L2 ecosystem where the layer one fees are still going to be high.
00:07:29.114 - 00:07:55.722, Speaker A: So we're going to be high aggregate fees, but we're going to have low individual fees at L2, and they're going to get lower and lower over time as well. As I discussed yesterday, there's already a proposal put forward to make it five times cheaper on roll ups to do transactions. So lots of stuff happening there. But. But, yeah, still cool to see the big 1 million milestone hit in only 109 days. It's been a, you know, since 1559 went live on August 6. It's been an absolutely insane, kind of, like, time.
00:07:55.722 - 00:08:09.730, Speaker A: I was not August 6, sorry. I think it was about August 6. It's been an absolutely insane time within Ethereum. Right? And the market. The market went hot again. Nfts kind of came onto the scene. And I think Opensea is still the top burner of all time.
00:08:09.730 - 00:08:41.836, Speaker A: I think ETH transfers and Uniswap will flip it soon. But OpenSea has definitely been a huge burner. I think accounting for over 10% of this ETH burned here, not to mention all the other individual NFT projects that that did minting and kind of, like, burned a lot of ETH. But, yeah, we had that. And then obviously, as the market got hotter and hotter, we kept having more and more activity on chain and pretty much like the base guy or the average guy, price seems to be about 100 at this point in time. It goes, you know, above and below it, but it seems about 100. And, you know, as the market keeps getting hotter and hotter, I expect that to definitely keep creeping up on there.
00:08:41.836 - 00:08:56.106, Speaker A: And especially as l two start filling block space as well. So, yeah, cool to see a million ETH burned. Let's see if we can do 2 million ETH in less than 109 days. I don't know if we will. Depends how, you know, what the market goes like. Depends if NFTs come roaring back because they chew a lot of gas. Right.
00:08:56.106 - 00:09:34.394, Speaker A: But we'll have to see what happens there. So, speaking of roll ups, Argent put out this amazing meme on Twitter yesterday where it's this picture of a dinosaur on the left and above the dinosaur, it's got l one bag holders squabbling over scaling. And then on the right hand side, it's got a meteor labeled ZK roll ups coming in to obviously kill the dinosaurs. The reason why I love this meme is because it's so simple. Because while these l one s are fighting over their monolithic designs, fighting over just, like, absolute, you know, I guess, like dinosaur related stuff. Like, literally, you know, when someone calls something a dinosaur, it means, like, it's really old school, it's really ancient. It just, like, doesn't fit in with the new world.
00:09:34.394 - 00:09:56.750, Speaker A: And then you have this thing called ZK roll ups, or just roll ups more generally coming in to basically wipe out all of these l one s. And as I've said before, I think the age of l one is over at this point. Right. I just. I think that this is kind of like the last hurrah. It's like the swan song, the l one s. I think the EVM side chains are particularly vulnerable here, and they're going to get hit hardest as roll ups continue to roll out.
00:09:56.750 - 00:10:42.056, Speaker A: And I think that, you know, they already are to an extent. I think a lot of them really only have usage because they've been subsidized by token incentives, which is fine. Like, I've discussed how that's not an issue before, but once these roll ups really start ramping up, you're going to see a mass exodus, I think, and people are going to go to these roll ups instead. And I've actually seen like a very big narrative shift recently as well. Like since sue put out his tweet over the last few days, it's been, what, five or six days now since he put that tweet out, maybe five days since then, the Ethereum ecosystem has basically come roaring out and being, and people who normally don't get kind of involved in these kind of Twitter debates have come roaring out and be like, screw you, man. Screw you all, you doubters. We're going to scale and you're going to watch us scale.
00:10:42.056 - 00:11:56.758, Speaker A: And not only are kind of like, they're more signaling from, from a lot of the community around roll ups, a lot more people like learning about roll ups now. But also we have these proposals, like I mentioned yesterday, about lowering the core data gas cost on layer one to make sure that we can kind of like offer even cheaper experience within these roll ups. So I actually think that it's a bit of a streisand effect there for, for Suzu. Like, I think that what he, you know, he was trying to obviously fight Ethereum, but in reality, he just made it so that more and more people, probably tens of thousands of more people, are now aware of what roll ups are and how Ethereum is actually scaling, which is obviously a net positive. So thanks for that, sue, and thanks for that, everyone that's been fighting Ethereum, and I've actually seen a narrative shift from these kind of like, l one fan people as well, or fanboys, whatever you want to call them, saying, oh, well, roll ups aren't exclusive to Ethereum. And that to me, just signals that, like, Ethereum is pretty much like already won there, like by a long shot. Because when they say this, the easiest reply to them is to say, well, if a roll up has a choice to settle on the most decentralized and secure base layer in existence or some centralized piece of garbage that hasn't been around for very long and has all these kind of inherent issues with it, what do you think the roll ups going to choose? They're going to choose Ethereum every single day.
00:11:56.758 - 00:12:29.086, Speaker A: Like, every single day. There's no point choosing another chain. So they've already lost in my eyes. So that's why this meme just so perfectly encapsulates what's going on within the, within the kind of like, crypto ecosystem right now. So, yeah, really like this from Argent here. So Kartik Talwa from ETH Global put out a kind of like, picture here of ETH Global's big 2021, and he basically captioned it with probably nothing. Well, obviously probably nothing is used by people in the crypto ecosystem to refer to something that is the complete opposite of that.
00:12:29.086 - 00:13:10.360, Speaker A: So this is obviously not nothing. And you can see here some of the stats. There were nine hackathons and 18 summits in 2021 run by ETH Global, with 5700 hackers, $1.5 million of prizes, 1337 projects, 450 talks, I mean, and then a bunch of other stats around here. I have judged a few of these ETH global hackathons. They're absolutely amazing. The amount of raw talent that Ethereum is able to bring into its ecosystem is able to attract not just from kind of engineering talent or kind of a research talent, it's like, from all kind of like, areas and, and also like passionate builders, passionate and dedicated builders who actually buy into the Ethereum mission of decentralization, permissionlessness, openness, all that good stuff.
00:13:10.360 - 00:13:35.808, Speaker A: Stuff there. And they come in, they build these projects. And a lot of the, you know, a lot of the top projects within Ethereum today were born out of hackathons, and specifically ETH global hackathons. So, you know, really amazing to see that ETH global has had their best year yet, and I think it's only going to ramp up from here. 2022 is going to be even better, I reckon. I think that, you know, the worst thing that could happen to Ethereum is if that we were having a net outflow of builders. We're not at all.
00:13:35.808 - 00:14:02.064, Speaker A: We're not close to that. We're having a massive net inflow of builders. Like, I would say that we're probably onboarding tens of thousands of new and builders, not just being engineering and research talent, as I mentioned, but like marketing, business development, community people, all that sort of stuff. Tens of thousands of people are flooding into the ethereum ecosystem. So we're having a massive net inflow, and hardly anyone is leaving. And if, you know, if they do leave, they're probably just leaving to go work on another chain. So they're not leaving crypto, right.
00:14:02.064 - 00:14:49.546, Speaker A: So crypto as a whole is definitely having a massive net inflow of kind of like builders coming into the ecosystem. So it's really great to see that ETH global acts as a way to capture a lot of these builders and get them in the Ethereum community and building on Ethereum rather than some other kind of like ecosystem out there. Because as much as people like to say we're all in this together, especially the other kind of like chain communities love to say we're all in this together, you can still say that. But the thing is, is that the resources are scarce. Like there aren't an unlimited amount of builders, there aren't unlimited amount of good builders. They're very scarce resources, especially things like solidity developers or just smart contract developers in general, very, very scarce resource. So, and you know, that's not the only resource that's scarce, right? Like every resource is pretty much scarce, like attention, you know, money, all that sort of stuff.
00:14:49.546 - 00:15:44.930, Speaker A: So from that point of view, yes, maybe the, you know, the good parts of the crypto ecosystem all in this together on the same mission, but we're still fighting and competing for resources. And that's why you see a lot of the other ecosystems putting forward massive kind of bounties where they basically say, hey, come build on us and we'll pay you like this grant or whatever, not bounty, sorry, grants. And you know, and you know, Ethereum does that too, of course. But essentially that's the kind of like the way to entice people to build on these sorts of things. But I think Ethereum has, what Ethereum has going for it over the other ecosystems is the fact that it entices people not just with money, with like a mission and ethos, a vision of kind of like what this ecosystem can be and can continue to be and to get them involved in it as well. So super exciting to see that ETH global is still doing really well here and, you know, congrats to them on a massive 2021. So DyDX has announced gasless deposits into their L2 roll up here.
00:15:44.930 - 00:16:28.738, Speaker A: So users can. Now, if I read the details here, so DyDx will cover the gas costs of all new users who deposit 1000 plus USDC on their first deposit or 2000 plus or on their first deposit or $2,000 plus on deposits thereafter. Gas free deposits and swaps are limited to once every three days. Now this is being made possible by, by economy to power those kind of gas free deposits there and zero x project as well. This is awesome. I want more L2 projects to do this because this is how we speed up the migration to L2. Not just through centralized exchange bridging, but also covering the gas costs for people on layer one, because once they're on L2, and once they have, like most of their capital on L2, it's all well and dandy.
00:16:28.738 - 00:17:10.842, Speaker A: Unless they want to kind of like take that capital and go to cash it out, you know, to a centralized exchange, to fiat, or unless they want to go and do something else on chain, they don't have to leave the layer too. So with DydX, for example, if you're just like a pure perp trader, you love trading perps. Well, you know, here you go. You can get a gasless deposit into here, into the DyDX exchange. You can play around with it, you can trade on there, you can do everything on there in a gasless experience, but it's just getting you onto the L2 in the first place, right onto the platform in the first place. Where this is really going to shine is arbitrum, optimism, Zksync, Polygon, Starkware, all onto their kind of generalized platforms doing gasless deposits. And I think they will.
00:17:10.842 - 00:18:04.712, Speaker A: I think the funny thing is you can actually do it where essentially you can have like a token and subsidize it through the token as well. Say, hey, we'll give you a token if you bridge in and obviously do it in a way where it can be civil, resistant, not that easy, but they can be done. And then kind of like, that's how you get everyone onto layer, onto L2, and just get them staying there. And then obviously we have binance integrating arbitrum. So if you've just deposited into arbitram from layer one right now, you can actually go directly from arbitrary to binance without paying layer one gas fees. So this is all coming together in a really great way, but great to see DYDX leading the charge here on gasless deposits, and great to see them working with other kind of like great projects within the ecosystem, like biconomy and zero x protocol there. So Robert Miller, known for basically being a big part of the MEV ecosystem, works at flashbots.
00:18:04.712 - 00:18:38.936, Speaker A: Put out a tweet today where he said we should do everything we can to lower the barriers to entry. For MeV, it's a marvel and worth fighting for. That MEV on ETH is open, transparent, and something anyone can participate in, a stark contrast to tradfi and other systems. So he's obviously referencing the other systems being something like avalanche that I spoke about, I think, yesterday or the day before, about how you actually have to be an active, validator to be able to see the mempool, to be able to actually participate in MeV. Ethereum isn't like that. Anyone can see the mempool as long as they're running a full node and there's no, and you can, you know, because of that. Anyone can extract mev on their own.
00:18:38.936 - 00:19:25.784, Speaker A: They can build their own bots. They can kind of like partake in flashbots. They can see what's happening in the mempool. They don't have to be a validator. And then he, you know, he says this is in stark contrast to Tradfi and others and other systems. But if you look at Tradfi, the perfect example here is something called payment for order flow, which essentially exists in the traditional finance system, where companies, funds, market makers can pay the kind of like brokerage, say it's like something like Robinhood for quote unquote order flow, which is basically access to the quote unquote mempool, which is essentially what's happening. So what stock are people buying? Where's the volume coming into? Can we kind of like front run them? Can we kind of like make a profit on this arbitrage or make a profit on this spread here? And that's all a closed system.
00:19:25.784 - 00:19:57.450, Speaker A: A completely closed system. That's the worst possible system. And then you have one that kind of like that kind of gets close to that, but not, not as bad, but still pretty bad, which is the way avalanche approaches MeV. And then you have one of the best systems that we have in all of crypto. And it's how Ethereum approaches Mev, where it's totally open, transparent, and something that anyone can participate in, because there's nothing being hidden here. Obviously, you need to be a sophisticated user to extract Mev, but anyone can do it. Like you can teach yourself to do it if you're motivated enough.
00:19:57.450 - 00:20:40.722, Speaker A: And it doesn't cost much, much money to do it either. It doesn't cost like hundreds of thousands of dollars to set up a validator, to actually just be able to see the mempool so you can do it and test it, because you'll be able to see the mempool yourself by running your own full node. So from that perspective, these are the kind of things that I think people miss. These are the kind of like more esoteric things within the Ethereum ecosystem that sets Ethereum apart from other ecosystem systems where we deeply care about the values of decentralization and openness and all that sort of stuff. And that feeds in from the bottom, like up right. And that sets the culture, that sets everything about what Ethereum is. And this may take a while to play out, but it's like when we get to that place where it plays out, you want to be on the right side of that, whereas these other ecosystems don't seem to be on the right side of it at all.
00:20:40.722 - 00:21:07.374, Speaker A: And those are the kind of like, things that we talk about when we, when we kind of like, talk about Ethereum's kind of mission, culture and values, is that we value this sort of stuff. We value being able to be open and decentralized and transparent, rather than being a closed and opaque system, because we already have that with tradfi. We don't need to recreate that. That's already there. We're trying to completely eliminate that and disrupt that and kill that. And you don't do that by just basically replicating the existing system. So great tweet from Robert Miller here today.
00:21:07.374 - 00:21:44.086, Speaker A: So another thing that Sue's tweet, I guess, like maybe not his original tweet, but his spat that he had with Kane seems to have kind of done, is that Kane is pushing really hard on kind of like synthetics related updates. So he posted a new update today on the upcoming dead pool synthesis, which will introduce fungibility between l one and l two synths with synthetix. So for those of you who think synthetix is dead, you know, it's been greatly exaggerated. Synthetix is not dead. It's just been one of those projects that started really early on with a L2 migration. And they've been kind of like working on this for quite a while. But now we're getting to a point where they've.
00:21:44.086 - 00:22:30.562, Speaker A: Where they've kind of like gotten to a point where they're adding a lot of features to the synthetics protocol on L2, on optimistic ethereum, and they're adding a lot of synthetic improvement proposals as well. So you can give this blog post a read to see exactly what's going on. How they achieve fungibility between l one and l two synths, which I think is pretty cool because as I've said before, some of these projects, especially like makeup with die, they need a way to keep kind of like an eye on the, kind of like the supply of the things that they issue. So Dai is obviously a synthetic asset. So it's the same thing as something like synthetics. They need to be able to keep. Keep track of where things are, and it needs to be able to have fungibility between different kind of like, you know, l one's and l, sorry, the l one, the different l two s, dies doing this through their wormhole feature.
00:22:30.562 - 00:23:09.734, Speaker A: And synthetix is actually using oracles to do this, like chain link oracles? I think so. Definitely give this a read if you want to learn more about that. So Zksync has partnered with the graph. So Zksync will be the first ZK protocol indexed by graph. Now, for those of you who don't know what the graph is, I'm sure a lot of you know what it is, but maybe you don't know how important it is to the ethereum ecosystem. All the stuff that you kind of see, a lot of the stuff that you see on the front ends of like defi apps and other kind of like different interfaces, a lot of it is powered by the graph where they return the APY, they return the balances, a lot of that sort of stuff. There are other services that do these, but the graph is a big player.
00:23:09.734 - 00:23:41.650, Speaker A: So they announced, you know, I mean, Zksync announced today that they will be powering Zksync to get all that data to you, which is obviously critical and important data, and you need that. So it's really, really awesome to see this. I mean, Zksync, since they're kind of like latest raise, have been an absolute tear with these partnerships, right? And with the marketing that they're doing. And as I said the other day, they're teasing that they're going to have Z K as the ZkVM on mainnet within three months. So, I mean, 2022 shaping up to be the year of ZK guys. So definitely don't sleep on it. I'm super excited about it.
00:23:41.650 - 00:24:13.866, Speaker A: Not just obviously Zksync, but there's plenty of other projects out there, Polygon working on it as well. Starkware, scroll, a couple of others, I think, out there. And don't forget about optimistic roll ups as well, which are obviously still very, very important. And I don't think they're going away anytime soon. Deaths of their deaths have been greatly exaggerated as well, or tales of their deaths at least have been greatly exaggerated. I think that people really need to realize that optimistic roll ups are a great kind of solution for now. And if ZK tech proves itself out, then we can do, you know, kind of like migrations from there as well.
00:24:13.866 - 00:24:51.500, Speaker A: But for now, we need something that works, and optimistic roll ups work very well for EVM compatibility as well. So speaking of optimistic roll ups, optimism shared a tweet today saying that direct fear to optimistic Ethereum, kind of like bridging is now live via a layer swap. So you can now transfer crypto from a centralized exchange to optimism by using layer swap service. So essentially this is a custodial centralized service. But the thing is, the funny thing is, is that if you're already going from a centralized exchange to a L2, then you're already using a centralized and custodial service. Right. So there's not too much more kind of like a risk here.
00:24:51.500 - 00:25:39.916, Speaker A: By doing this, obviously you're taking on the risk of layer swap instead of just like the centralized exchange. But still, I mean, this is a cool solution to get from a centralized exchange to optimism before they actually integrate, kind of like do native integrations. Obviously, I've been talking a lot about how important these centralized exchange bridges are, but these kind of like solutions where there's a bit, there's a middleman sitting in between is a pretty cool kind of like short to medium term solution until these centralized exchanges do their own native integrations. So finally here we have adidas originals put out a tweet where they said, we've partnered with Coinbase, probably nothing. And Coinbase has confirmed that partnership with this little shaking hand emoji here. I think they also tweeted about it. Where is it? Uh, yeah, GM adidas Originals.
00:25:39.916 - 00:26:07.160, Speaker A: Welcome to the party, partner. So I'm going to assume this is basically for Coinbase's NFT platform. I'm going to assume that Adidas originals are going to be doing nfts on Coinbase's platform. And I'm going to assume that this is not the last big brand that is going to be leveraging Coinbase to do their nfts. I really would love to know if Coinbase is going to be building on a L2, if they're going to have their own kind of chain. You know how they're doing this. I think that they're definitely going to be building it on Ethereum first, at least.
00:26:07.160 - 00:26:50.974, Speaker A: But are they going to be doing it on a L2? Are they going to be doing it on something like immutable x as infrastructure? Are they going to have their own infrastructure out there? I don't know if that's been revealed just yet, but they're definitely going to have a lot of big players on board. I mean, obviously Adidas is huge. I'm going to assume they're going to have like plenty more other big players on board for their launch. They're obviously going to have like the more ethereum crypto native nfts on there, like, you know, or support for that, like cool cats, crypto punks, board apes, all that sort of stuff there. But this is kind of like how crypto goes mainstream. Guys like, this is the true mainstream. Getting these already massive mainstream brands to do nfts on already massive kind of like more mainstream platforms, like crypto platforms like Coinbase.
00:26:50.974 - 00:27:18.370, Speaker A: And then from there, the final kind of like gets drilled down upon. Because think about the amount of people that are going to come into crypto or into the Ethereum ecosystem via Coinbase's NFT platform. And let's say only 1% of those people, at least in the short term, go and do something else on Ethereum. Well, let's say Coinbase brings in a million people. That's 10,000 people that would go. If it's only 1%, that's 10,000 people that would go and do something on chain that they wouldn't have done before. I think the conversion rate is going to be higher than that.
00:27:18.370 - 00:27:51.886, Speaker A: I don't think there's only going to be 1% that actually take a deep further. So I take a deeper dive, especially if Coinbase makes it obvious that people can kind of like do other things with their NFTs or kind of like withdraw them to their own wallet and stuff like that, which they may or may not do. I'm not sure yet. But yeah, we're going to have, like, so many more news is coming in through this, these sorts of things than we otherwise would. So I'm definitely very, very excited for that. But that's going to be it for today's episode, for the one year anniversary. Just a reminder, more details about that NFT will be revealed shortly, but I think on that note, it's going to be it for today.
00:27:51.886 - 00:28:00.574, Speaker A: So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
