00:00:00.480 - 00:00:39.658, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Gui refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano. Today is the 6 April 2021. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So I put out this tweet a few hours ago because I was reflecting today while I was kind of like sitting on the, on the computer scrolling through Twitter, and I basically said that I was feeling a bit emotional because ETH was holding steady over $2,000 and it still is, it's up at the $2100 mark here. And I was just kind of like thinking about 2018 and 2019 when the sentiment for Ethereum and ETH was just so incredibly bad and incredibly toxic. And it felt like that the bear market kind of would last forever, right? That it would never end.
00:00:39.658 - 00:01:25.208, Speaker A: And then I kind of finished off saying kind of, we made it fam now. I think we made it in some respects, and in others, the journey is just getting started, right. From what I mean by what I kind of meant by saying we made it was more so kind of, we made it through the worst of, I think, like, of what we're going to see in the future. Because during the bear market, especially during 2018 and 2019, not only was ETH price like really bad, right, and it kind of like fell 90 plus percent in 2018 alone, but also the use cases just weren't there yet. There was like little bit of Defi here, you know, a little bit of Dow stuff here. There was like basically no NFT stuff. You know, NFTs were a joke at that point because of the cryptokitties kind of saga from late 2017.
00:01:25.208 - 00:02:30.850, Speaker A: So from that perspective, you know, it did certainly feel like at times and people kind of like that, I know, questioned like, what were we doing here? Like, was a theorem actually going to change the world? Is, you know, was the things that we were building actually going to go on and become like billion dollar on chain businesses and protocols and stuff like that? It definitely was not a short thing. And then on top of all of that, you had the toxicity coming from certain camps, especially the, the bitcoin camp, where they were like, you know, ethereum's kind of dead, it's gonna, it's finished, it's, this is its demise, right? The price is kind of like dead. The platform itself is not gonna amount to anything, blah, blah, blah. Now, that's easy to fend off these days because it's so obviously, you know, untrue. And we have so many use cases and we've got so much economic activity to show them that it's not true. But back then, especially when the price was really bad, it was incredibly hard to convince anyone because the fact is, like, we were like a lot of us ethereums back then, we were bringing up, you know, arguments and fighting back against it, but we had like a tiny community behind us. We didn't have the price action to behind us to get more people involved with it.
00:02:30.850 - 00:03:03.408, Speaker A: And unfortunately, a lot of what happens in this space is dictated by the price of different assets. So from that point of view, it was just incredibly hard to defend Ethereum back then. But these days it is incredibly easy. I think, you know, it's actually been wild to see the sentiment change on Twitter from even like, people that I wouldn't consider to be like. I guess you could call them bitcoin maximalists. I consider to be just bitcoiners who, you know, didn't necessarily think Ethereum was anything special, didn't really care for it, was kind of indifferent about it. Now those people are like really kind of like into Ethereum.
00:03:03.408 - 00:03:51.586, Speaker A: They actually think ETH is a, is a good asset to hold. They think it's a store of value. I mean, it's just totally wild. And for those of you who just weren't around in 18 and 19 and didn't live through that, you know, that's just kind of like, I guess, a TLDR on what it was like back then. It was very, very, very different. And it's just completely insane how much things have changed in just 18 months, right? We went from essentially Ethereum and ETH being dead or being considered dead to ethereum being considered by not only the people in the ecosystem, but the people outside of it to be the future of finance, the world sentiment layer. We've gotten to the point now where people are like, okay, you know, ethereum is going to win, but like, what else is going to win, right? What else is going to be a really used platform in the future? Like, what other blockchains and things like that? So, yeah, it's been, it's been insane to see that.
00:03:51.586 - 00:04:43.798, Speaker A: But I won't drone on too much about that. I just always like reminiscing and thinking back and kind of taking a bit of a break to think like, how far we've come because, you know, life comes at you so fast, right? And, you know, if you, if you don't kind of like, stop and think about it, sometimes it just gets ahead of you. You're gonna miss it, you're gonna kind of like, you know, might get to a point later on in life. You're like, wow, I wish I kind of took time to reflect on that and took time to kind of take it all in. And that's what I try to do from time to time, especially in this industry where it's just absolutely insane. Like the industry moves so incredibly quickly that it's very easy to lose sight of things. You know, it's funny because I've kind of put a thread out about this before about the short termism in this space where everything needs to happen, like now, and if it doesn't happen now, people aren't interested in it, right? You know, it took, for example, it's taking longer than people would like for lay it the layer to ecosystem to mature on, to grow and things like that.
00:04:43.798 - 00:05:31.452, Speaker A: But that's all good is going to be a distant memory soon because these things are going to go live on main net. These things are going to get usage. You know, as I've said before, the optimism to delay to like July for their public mainnet means, means nothing in the grand scheme of things. So I think just, you know, having that long term outlook and also pausing maybe just once a week to take kind of stock and kind of, I guess, like take, take it all in, right? Take the previous weeks worth of stuff all in. And, you know, if, you know, I know I kind of do this video every day and obviously a lot of you watching every day are kind of on top of all this stuff going on in the ecosystem. But, you know, you might watch the video, then close it off and then kind of forget. So that's why I also do like a weekly recap on through EtHub with the newsletter and the podcast because it's good to get like the highlights of the week as well and to kind of get a refresher there.
00:05:31.452 - 00:06:04.012, Speaker A: So yeah, you can check that out, too. The EtHub, you just have to just kind of google it to Ethub dot substack.com as well there. Just a little bit of a shill for you there. But anyway, let's kind of move on to, I guess, like the news from the last 24 hours. Our first bit of news is that if you have a git coin grant, you can go claim your payouts. Now, the cool thing about this is I think that anyone can actually click claim match here, but that doesn't mean that you'll get the funds if you click claim match for someone else's grant, it'll just kind of like send the funds to that, that person.
00:06:04.012 - 00:06:36.240, Speaker A: I think that's how it works. Maybe it doesn't work like that because I did it for both Ethub and the Daily Gwei, but Ethub's address was different to the Daily Gwei, so I'm not sure. But, you know, it might work like that. But anyway, if you have a grant, definitely go, go claim it there. So Samsung put out this, this funny tweet today where he said, found a critical bargain and contract that's over four years old, possibly the oldest to ever be discovered. Full story coming soon, so keep an eye out. Now, there are not many smart contracts on Ethereum that are over four years old.
00:06:36.240 - 00:07:16.478, Speaker A: You know, you think about it, four years ago was 2017. A lot of the, I guess, contracts from back then have been kind of, like, superseded by V two s of different protocols. You know, maybe he found a critical bug in Ether Delta. Maybe he found it in the wrapped ether smart contract, which I doubt because I don't think he would tease it like this. I think maybe what he's found is a critical bug in a contract that is just not very much used anymore, but it's kind of always kind of like a dead contract. And he wouldn't, I guess, like, he definitely wouldn't be saying this if it was still an issue, right? If the bug was still out there, I'm pretty sure it would have been patched by now. But very, very curious to see what he's found here.
00:07:16.478 - 00:07:51.944, Speaker A: And for those who don't know, Samsung is a basically, you know, he's famous within the ethereum ecosystem for catching critical bugs in many important smart contracts that other kind of people have missed and that auditors have missed. So he's pretty much a genius when it comes to security, to catching security issues in different smart contracts and vulnerabilities there. He works for paradigm, one of the best kind of funds in the space. And, you know, the talent at paradigm is just insane. And Samsung obviously adds to that. But, yeah, I'm going to keep an eye on this. And once he kind of puts out the full story, I'm sure you'll all see it, but I'll also go over it on the refuel.
00:07:51.944 - 00:08:42.708, Speaker A: So Kyber network put out, I guess, like yesterday they launched their main net beta for the Kyber dynamic market maker or the DMM protocol. Now, I've talked about this on the refuel a few months ago when they kind of, like, I guess, announced this. So what the dynamic market maker kind of exchange is, it's basically a next generation AMM designed to optimize fees and enable extremely high capital efficiency for liquidity providers. Now this might bring a little bit of bells within with Uniswap V three, right? It's the same goal of uniswap V three where they're trying to make it much more efficient for LP's and trying to optimize fees as well. So Kyber DMM, as I said, it stands for dynamic market maker. And it kind of works in a similar way where there's dynamic fees. So the, the fees of the protocol will actually adjust based on market conditions.
00:08:42.708 - 00:09:27.722, Speaker A: So based on the trading volume and price volatility to reduce kind of impermanent loss for LP's and maximize returns for the, for the takers here, programmable curves. This is kind of like, I guess, how you can have, you know, a concentrated liquidity in uniswap where you can have like a curve style like, you know, bonding curve, or you can have like a classic uniswap style curve or a classic amm style style curve here. And then there's permissionless liquidity contribution. So anyone can provide liquidity by depositing token, by depositing token inventory into various pools. And any taker, you know, for example, Dapps aggregators and users can source liquidity from the DMM. Now that's basically the TLDR of how it works. You can read through this thread for, I guess, a deeper dive into this.
00:09:27.722 - 00:10:20.440, Speaker A: But what I did want to kind of talk about a little bit was Kyber and where they kind of sit in the ecosystem. Now, I remember speaking about them a few months ago or a couple months ago or something like that, and saying that I think that they were kind of like trying to, or needing to reinvent themselves at this stage because of the fact that they were basically an on chain liquidity protocol that essentially was like a Dex aggregator. But they kind of, I think, lost a lot of market share to the likes of like one inch and I guess some of the other ones like Dexag, which is now slingshot and things like that. So they kind of had to like come up with something, something new and kind of differentiate themselves. And I think the dynamic market maker here is definitely a product that looks extremely interesting and, and may just be that product for Kyber. I mean, you know, for those of you who've been around for a while, you know, that Kyber's been around since 2017. They did a massive ICO back then, something like $70 million, I think.
00:10:20.440 - 00:11:08.494, Speaker A: So they've obviously had, have a lot of Runway have a big team and have been very core building block within the Defi ecosystem for a long time now. So yeah I'm hoping you know this, this kind of works out for them. We see like a resurgence in popularity for Kyber here because yeah as far as the, I guess like being a Dex aggregator in the way they were doing it was through an on chain liquidity pool sort of like what zero x does. But that was kind of I guess like less capital efficient and less popular than just like the Dex aggregators that allowed you to just pull from different kind of I guess like liquidity pools on Ethereum. So Kyber kind of was, I was going a different path there but I think this, this DMM here is going to, is going to lead to some more growth. So congrats for getting this to mainnet in a beta fashion here. It's a kaiba and I'll keep an eye on this for sure.
00:11:08.494 - 00:11:45.726, Speaker A: So yearn finance put out this I guess like this, this summary of yearn y vaults. At a glance here and you can kind of see I guess like the most popular vaults in terms of like how much money they have in them and the revenue generated by each of these vaults. It's pretty cool to see that the highest revenue generating vault is actually the synthetic ETH volt. So the seat, well the curve se volts essentially here. And then you got like a couple of others around here like USDP that's a stable coin. I can't remember what it is. I think maybe it's Paxo stablecoin.
00:11:45.726 - 00:12:26.178, Speaker A: I don't know then ste which is staked either from Lido the three curve pool which is the very famous stablecoin pool and then a bunch of others here as well. So yeah you can see the TVL of each of these pools. The biggest kind of like pool seems to be the YV dai pool, still stable coin pool with $170 million. I think a lot of that's coming from Alchemyx because Alchemyx uses yearn as kind of its, its yield aggregator here. But yeah I really like this. I mean it's just like a quick kind of one pager on for the week of kind of like the yearn vaults. At a glance here and you know I think this just speaks to kind of like yearn and how they've been building for a little while now.
00:12:26.178 - 00:13:03.774, Speaker A: Kind of maybe not quietly but quietly for the wider ecosystem. You all from Defi some will remember how much attention yearn had back then. And then I think the kind of, like, newness and hotness wore off, and then we kind of went into the defi bear market. And I think since then, people have kind of, like, ignored yearn, which is, which is dumb, in my opinion, because of the fact that they, they've actually been building, like, some really great products and their TVL has still been growing. I think they've got like 2 billion TVL or something like that. And, you know, I just noticed today the price of the Wi Fi token is starting to go up again. And I noticed that because I still hold my Wi Fi tokens, I still think the project is really, really good.
00:13:03.774 - 00:13:37.940, Speaker A: So just a disclaimer there, but I think, you know, there should be more teams that do this, right? Giving a glance into your protocol, putting it in a nice graphic so people can see kind of like the growth and, and where the revenues are being generated from and stuff like that. This is kind of like, I guess, an earnings report, right, for, for the company, but, like, at a glance. And it's not the company, the protocol, so to speak. So, yeah, it was really, really cool to see this from, from year. And I hope more protocols follow, follow what they're doing here. So the total crypto market cap is now $2 trillion. I think it's more than they now, like $2.1
00:13:37.940 - 00:14:29.678, Speaker A: trillion, which is quite crazy, right? I mean, I wrote about this in the Daily Gray newsletter today, and what I actually focused on was how we calculate market caps, like, circulating versus fully diluted and stuff like that. But that's not what I'm going to talk about today. What I did want to talk about is just how crazy this number is. So when you take this number and go on Coingecko and look at the, the assets, bitcoin accounts for, what, $1.1 trillion worth of, of this. And then you have ether, which is 250 billion, and then you have like, a bunch of others between ten and 50, and then you have, like, this long tail. But the funny thing is, the long tail is like, the top 100 is 1 billion or more in market cap now, which is insane, right? Like, and if you look at the top 100, there's a lot of stuff in there that doesn't have any business being worth what it's worth, which is just absolutely crazy.
00:14:29.678 - 00:15:01.550, Speaker A: But those, those things actually don't really move the needle much. Right? Because if you think about it, if there's like 50 billion. Sorry, 50 projects with a $1 billion cap each, that's only 50 billion, right? So, and then if you look at the total crypto market cap being 2 trillion here, 50 billion of that is a very small amount, like two and a half percent or something like that. So. And, you know, bitcoin can move 50 billion in market cap with just like a small price rise. Doesn't have to move very much. So that's why a lot of that is kind of like concentrated at those kind of like top assets there.
00:15:01.550 - 00:15:27.108, Speaker A: And, you know, it's been funny to watch. Kind of like, I guess the bunch of the other assets in the top ten just like go to like 50 billion essentially, right? 50, 40, 30 billion there. And there's still assets in there that don't belong there. I mean, I just saw XRP pumping today and I was just like, what the hell? Like, this is just scaring me. I mentioned that yesterday how there are all these kind of things, you know, going up in value really quickly, that signal to me that we're in like a late stage bull market. But I'm not even sure anymore. I just don't know.
00:15:27.108 - 00:16:07.946, Speaker A: You know, we have so many bullish catalysts coming up that I think we're going to have like a pretty good next couple of months at least. Like, if you think about it, the Coinbase kind of direct listing where Coinbase lists on the stock exchange in the US is going to be absolutely massive. It's going to open at $100 billion market cap right out the gate. It's probably going to go higher than that as people beat it up. It's going to be the first kind of, I guess, exposure that a lot of the traditional finance system can get to the crypto asset class because a lot of them didn't want to touch, I guess, bitcoin or ETH or any of the asset assets directly. So they're going to definitely buy Coinbase. It's like a blue chip kind of like tech stock, you know, based in Silicon Valley.
00:16:07.946 - 00:16:38.716, Speaker A: It's got all the hallmarks of something that you would want to own as like a traditional finance kind of, I guess, like shop fund manager or a bank or an institution or something like that. So that's definitely going to get bit up for sure. That's going to bring a ton of attention into the crypto space. And on top of that, Coinbase now has to report, do quarterly reports. So they have to do earnings reports. They have to kind of, you know, talk about, like, what their growth's been like and stuff like that, and actually doing one of those today. So I think it's due in about, what, seven, 8 hours from when I'm recording this.
00:16:38.716 - 00:17:05.950, Speaker A: So I'll go over that in tomorrow's refuel. But I'm really curious to see what the growth was like. I'm betting they had a massive amount of growth in Q one. So because it's the Q one earnings report, I'm betting they had a lot of retail growth in Q one, if you actually look back on it. So I'm really curious to see that. But you know what? I'd actually be more curious to see something like binance. Because if you really think about it, you know, Coinbase is very Us centric, but Binance is pretty global if you look at it, and Binance has a lot more assets.
00:17:05.950 - 00:17:36.130, Speaker A: So if you would. If you have a Coinbase account, that's all well and good, but, you know, if Coinbase doesn't have the asset that you want to buy, it's more than likely that Binance is going to have that asset. So you'll have just accounts on both. So I think that binance's growth would have probably been more explosive than Coinbase's for Q one. But I think Coinbase is still going to be a really great measure to see. Kind of like, you know, if you know how much retail investors are here, how many new investors are here, because as I've said, they are definitely here. We can see it playing out in the markets, right? We can see all the new money coming in.
00:17:36.130 - 00:18:00.688, Speaker A: But I'm curious to see just how. How, I guess, like, how crazy it just, it is. Because that'll give us a kind of a nice indication of what kind of, I guess, like, stage in the cycle we are in. Because if it's like absolutely explosive numbers from Q four last year to Q one, then, you know, you might look at that and be like, okay, wow, you know, this is, this is pretty crazy right now. Maybe the. Maybe the top, the cycle top is near. And as I've said before, I have no idea.
00:18:00.688 - 00:18:23.272, Speaker A: I have my concerns and doubts and I have my reasons to be bullish, but we'll have to see how it all plays out. So, yeah, you know, I mean, this total crypto market cap could be at 4 trillion by the end of the month. We just don't know. Right? I mean, bitcoin can just double and kind of like, carry this whole thing from here. So we'll have to see how that plays out for sure. But, yeah, that's, I guess, like, big milestone here. Maybe we'll go to 10 trillion before the cycle is done.
00:18:23.272 - 00:18:51.234, Speaker A: Who knows? That's a. That's a pretty big market cap. I think that's like the mark cap of gold right now, or maybe a bit under what gold is. So, yeah, we'll see how that goes. So Alchemyx completed their transmuter v one one migration, which is a massive upgrade, as they've said here. So basically what this transmuter did was it basically added a way to get boosted yields on your Dai deposit. So the yields are now 37% on your DAI deposits.
00:18:51.234 - 00:19:19.654, Speaker A: And this. And you know, you might be wondering, how can they get 37% on dai? Well, and they explained it here, and I'll quote, well, instead of just the current 80 million dai earning yield, now 280 million dai is. And that larger capital base translates to more yield for depositors, boosting it three times from standard yearned vaults. As more depositors come in, this boost will go down, however. So it's probably. I mean, there was 37% when they launched like 23 hours ago. It might not be that right now, I haven't checked, but it's still definitely higher than what it was.
00:19:19.654 - 00:20:22.900, Speaker A: So, I mean, I think Alchemyx right now, and I hold Alkx tokens, just a disclaimer there, but I think Alchemyx right now is the best place to get yield on your dai currently in terms of like the highest yield for a protocol that, I mean, hasn't been around very long, so the risk is there, but for a protocol that is doing very well, and then you can actually boost that because you can kind of like put it into like a curve pool and then put that in, sorry, mint al USD out of this, put that into a curve pool and then put those curve tokens into the Alchemix farm and farm Alkx tokens. So, I mean, this is just like a yield burger going on here, which is crazy. So if you've got. If you've got some stable coins, I would suggest that kind of like giving this, this a look here through Alchemyx. And definitely consider the smart contract risk, of course, and stuff like that. And maybe not, don't put all of your net worth into it or anything like that. But still, it's just great to see that teams and different teams and different projects are coming up with, I guess, really, really innovative ways to maximize yield for depositors at the end of the day.
00:20:22.900 - 00:20:39.088, Speaker A: And, you know, a lot of people might think this is too good to be true, but this is all accounted for. Like, this is all on chain, completely transparent. There is no kind of like money being printed out of thin air here. It's not possible to do that with the way this is set up. So, yeah, this is all real. It's all. It's all well and good.
00:20:39.088 - 00:21:17.534, Speaker A: The risk, obviously, is the smart contract risk, but that's, I guess, like all of DeFi right now, you know. But Alchemyx is definitely newer than most DeFi apps, so just a bit of caution there. But definitely go check it out if you are looking for somewhere to earn some yield on your die. So Dan from. From the block here, put out a really great thread where he basically broke down what the private funding kind of rounds look like right now. And he basically said that Q one of this year was a historical quarter for venture funding, private funding in the crypto sector, with roughly $3.18 billion allocated to different projects.
00:21:17.534 - 00:21:44.894, Speaker A: So you can see the breakdown here. Most of it was ghost went to crypto financial services, which isn't Defi, I don't think, because he split defy up into a different kind of thing here. I think that it's like the centralized services and the tradfi services here, NFts and gaming had. It is even bigger. I mean, I think that is in part due to, you know, the flow kind of blockchain thing with like the NBA top shot and all that. They raised a ton of money. I mean, I looked at that and was like, this is just insane.
00:21:44.894 - 00:22:13.354, Speaker A: That's a lot of money they raised, but that takes up a lot of that. I think infrastructure, I think a big part of that is definitely the stockware raise, which is like $75 million. So the infrastructure includes like, you know, L2s and stuff like that. Defi, of course, is still there, but a lot smaller than I would have thought it would be, which is quite crazy. Trading brokerage, of course, enterprise protocols and data analytics as well, which is a fair chunk here. But, yeah, that's $3.18 billion in just the private markets, which is.
00:22:13.354 - 00:22:38.256, Speaker A: Which is pretty insane right now. And, you know, I was actually kind of thinking about this, and I kind of think to myself, this is just another, I guess, signal to me that things are pretty hot right now. There are valuations right now in private rounds that are getting way ahead of where the tech is. There are some private rounds where people. Where they being valued at like one to $200 million and they don't even have a product yet. Right. Nothing is live.
00:22:38.256 - 00:22:58.298, Speaker A: It's basically just a. It's more than a white paper. It's. There's like kind of, I guess, like an alpha sometimes. Or a testnet, but there's nothing on Mainnet. The, the raise wants to kind of, I guess, get done before they go on to Mainnet and stuff like that. So, so some of these valuations are definitely very, getting very ahead of themselves, but it's also a function of these teams wanting to raise as much money as they can.
00:22:58.298 - 00:23:37.158, Speaker A: While I guess the market's hot, because if we do go into another long kind of bear market, maybe it goes for a few months, maybe it goes for two years, I don't know. These teams want to have Runway, right? Because we all know this is the future, but the markets can remain irrational, you know, for a long time, you know, in either direction, mind you, doesn't matter if it's up or down, it can remain irrational in either direction. So from that point of view, a lot of projects are just raising more. Plus, capital is so easy to come by. Right now. There is money flying absolutely everywhere because everyone's made a lot of money in the last year. There's a ton of new money coming into the ecosystem that isn't crypto native, that wants a share of what's going on, especially in the private rounds, because they want to get in it, get in as cheap as they can.
00:23:37.158 - 00:24:33.558, Speaker A: So, yeah, there's a lot of that stuff going on as well, which is just another signal to me that we are in such a full blown bull market. I mean, you know, it's basically, I would have to say, like, it's at least mid stage, if not like mid to late in terms of, like, where we are. But as I said before, I don't know, like, you know, this could just be the adoption cycle, right? This doesn't have to be one of those kind of like typical crypto, I guess, bubbles where we just go up really quickly and then crash. But the other flip side to that is that I'm seeing so much just absolute crap pump that just gives me pause. I'm just like, okay, there is adoption in like Defi and NFTs and stuff like that, but there is also like, this massive bubble in the, in just so much vaporware right now and so many scams, you know, are we gonna see, like, all that money just flow back into the legit projects or is it gonna get to a point where just like the fresh money just runs out, people just get tired of it and everything just dumps together? Typically, everything just tends to dump together, right. So we don't know. Who knows? We'll see.
00:24:33.558 - 00:25:09.352, Speaker A: But, yeah, pretty insane kind of growth here, I guess, in the private investment space. So last thing I wanted to talk about was, I mean, something that I've been talking about for the last, I guess, like maybe couple of months now about traditional finance waking up people, waking up to ETH as an asset. Now, you have this traditional finance person called, I think his name is Anthony Scaramucci here. As far as I know, he is not a very popular person because of his politics or something. I didn't really follow that. So I don't know what's going on there. But he's a billionaire fund manager, and he has been paying a lot of attention to crypto lately.
00:25:09.352 - 00:25:44.044, Speaker A: But the reason, I mean, because, because of him being a billionaire fund manager and because of him having a lot of clout within that traditional finance space and a lot of connections, I did want to bring up something that he touched on in this video, and you can watch this video. I'll link it in the description. But basically what he said is he both referred to ETH as a store of value, and he also said that he needs to get his clients from non crypto to bitcoin, and then he can get them from bitcoin to everything else, which means he has his eyes set on ETH. For sure. He understands the value of ETH. He actually said some things about that, too. But this kind of, like, speaks to what I was saying.
00:25:44.044 - 00:26:16.142, Speaker A: What I've been saying is that the leap from non crypto to crypto is absolutely massive, right. For a lot of people, it's just, it requires a change in thinking. It requires, especially for older generations where they, they didn't grow up with, like, in a digital world. So it requires them to kind of, I guess, rewire their brains a little bit and accept that these things are real. It's not a scam. It's not a ponzi. And then once they've accepted that, the leap from bitcoin to ETH and other assets is just so small, right? Because they can just be like, okay, well, this is like bitcoin, except it can do all this other stuff, essentially.
00:26:16.142 - 00:26:40.390, Speaker A: So that's another thing that I kind of wanted to mention there. And then I said, this is your alpha, because it is. I have no doubt in my mind that ETH is like, as I said before, ETH is the next thing to get the public company balance, balance sheet treatment, where a lot of these big companies just have on their balance sheets. They're not just going to stop at bitcoin. They're going to buy more. They're going to. Going to be ton more our traditional money coming into ETH.
00:26:40.390 - 00:27:23.356, Speaker A: ETH is now viewed as a story of value by not just people within the crypto ecosystem, but with, from, from, from outside of it. Ethereum as a technology has so much promise and so much kind of like usage and so many, so much real usage. It has validation for big companies like visa. I mean, all these things are compound together to create this massive kind of, I guess, opportunity right now. And, you know, ETH might be a little bit, you know, expensive for some people at over $2,000 because just a year ago it was like a $100 or whatever it was or $200 or something like that. But at the same time, I look at market cap, right, 250 billion bitcoins at a trillion. I mean, bitcoin is at a trillion based on, you know, much less than what I think ETH can, can grow based on like in terms of utility and stuff like that.
00:27:23.356 - 00:27:58.320, Speaker A: You know, Ethereum doesn't even have its pos, issuance or ERp 1559 yet. You know, I actually have a kind of, a little bit of a theory that we're going to run up until 1559 goes on to the Ethereum main net in July, hopefully. And then we may have a bit of a cool off period. Not, not investment advice, but that's kind of like the thesis that I have. I'm not going to be trading around it or anything like that. But if I had to guess, you know, the hype of 1559, you know, the narrative is there, the hype of like the merger getting closer and closer as well, defi all this new money coming in. I mean, you know what? We might go until July before we have a, have a cool off.
00:27:58.320 - 00:28:22.970, Speaker A: I don't know, maybe we cool off sooner than that. Who knows? But really great to see people viewing ETH as a story of value. I think that narrative is going to keep getting larger and larger, keep getting more kind of like into people's, into different people's minds and more people just going to buy ETH because of it. So, yeah, I'm holding tight for sure. Not selling any of my ETH, that's for sure. But we'll see how crazy things get over the next few months. All right, that's it for today, everyone.
00:28:22.970 - 00:28:33.154, Speaker A: Thank you again for watching and listening. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up. Join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone. Bye.
