00:00:00.400 - 00:00:21.638, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, MN Susan, and today's the 30 October 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So first up today, we have the finalists that were announced from the ETH online 2023 hackathon here. So there are eleven finalists as per usual. I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below.
00:00:21.638 - 00:01:33.732, Speaker A: You can check out all the finalists for yourself. But I mean, I say this every time I highlight these threads. Basically, if you want to see what's happening at the bleeding edge of Ethereum development, whether that be at layer one or L2, really, I mean, any kind of part of ethereum development generally not just on chain, but also the infrastructure that surrounds it, then the ETH global events specifically kind of these hackathon events are the things to look at. Because when you're at a hackathon, you definitely don't want to be making something that already exists, right? You want to be making something that you think is really, really cool, that you think hasn't been done before. And also, the fact is, is this is not a product that has to be like perfect, right? It can be. I mean, a lot of the times it's just a proof of concept where it's just on a testnet, right? It has very basic functionality, but it shows basically the idea of what you, what you want to achieve here. And because of that, you get a lot of these cool ideas that maybe later become projects that get funded and then eventually hit main net and people start using them and they become the next uniswap, right? Like, because Uniswap famously started out as a, not, not as a hackathon project, but as something that was funded by $100,000 Ethereum foundation grant and then went on to raise money and became the juggernaut that it is today.
00:01:33.732 - 00:02:19.154, Speaker A: And you know, I feel like in terms of projects that have been spawned out of different hackathons, you know, if global hackathons probably have spawned the most unicorn projects in the Ethereum ecosystem by far, if I had to kind of put money on it. But I obviously don't have the stats and metrics handy right now. But from my experience, that's kind of been what's, what's up there. So yeah, as I said, you can check out all the projects for yourself. I haven't had a chance to check them out yet and see which ones kind of caught my eye, but they're all listed here with links to each of the projects in the thread and you can go check them out and play with the demos. I mean, as I've said before, if you go to the project pages, pages, I'll just go to one here. It usually has like the source code, a demo, if there is a demo available, description about the product and videos and stuff like that about it as well, which is pretty cool.
00:02:19.154 - 00:02:55.580, Speaker A: And yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right. Speaking of cool, innovative projects, ZK P Two P is something that I've covered on the refill before. And they put out a video over the weekend showcasing some of what they've built here. So there is a lot going on in this video in the background, but basically what they've built is a way to onboard from USD to USDC in 90 seconds using ZK proof. So from my understanding, from watching the video and kind of reading through the replies here, what's essentially happening is that they're kind of doing a request here for someone to send money via Venmo.
00:02:55.580 - 00:03:25.544, Speaker A: So you can see here on the video, they're requesting three USDC via Venmo. So they've got this Venmo order that pops up. There's a Venmo payment QR code that someone can scan, which they do in the demo here. And that goes through and then they go to complete on ramp. I'm just skipping through the kind of video here. And then this is where the ZK proofs kick in. So they go verify email and then they verify the email via a ZK proof of the email that was sent of the Venmo payment.
00:03:25.544 - 00:03:43.960, Speaker A: That's from my understanding. I may be getting that wrong, but that's how I understood it. And then once that proof is kind of verified, it takes about 30 seconds. You can see me skipping through the video here. Once that's done, the order is completed. What, you know, you submit on chain transaction, the order is completed and then you get USDC. So that all, as I said, that all happens in the background.
00:03:43.960 - 00:04:04.906, Speaker A: What I just watch what I just discussed for you guys there. But essentially this is a USD from Venmo to USDC on chain through a peer to peer fashion. There's no kind of middleman here. There's no kind of centralized exchange or on ramp singing in the middle. It's. It's truly peer to peer, peer to peer through Venmo. Obviously, Venmo is a centralized app.
00:04:04.906 - 00:04:50.180, Speaker A: It's kind of technically, I guess, a middleman there. But the whole point is to bring, I guess, like the peer to peer nature of crypto and of Venmo together in order to create this. Basically, what is a bridge, right? What is kind of like an on ramp, off ramp, sort of hybrid bridge thing that's going on here. And the reason why this is obviously super exciting is because if you want to pay someone back via Venmo or want to kind of like send money to someone via Venmo or someone wants you to send them money via, via Venmo, but maybe they want USDC instead of USD, and they don't want to have to do the onboarding themselves. They can do it through something like this. Right? So it basically eliminates those steps then. And this is something that I've talked a lot about on the refill before about how we need to eliminate as many steps as possible to do things in crypto.
00:04:50.180 - 00:05:28.966, Speaker A: It's kind of that, that I guess like that that old adage of like one to two clicks Max to do anything on your, on your mobile phone should be the same thing for on chain applications, right? And especially when it comes to things like finance. I mean, the tradfi application. Oh, sorry. I guess like they call them neo banks or like these neo fi applications that use tradfi rails, they abstract a lot away in the background, but they're still using the old rail. So they do have limitations on what they can abstract away. And there are middlemen there as well. Like for example, in the case of kind of like the banks doing these, I guess like doing these instant transfers between each other.
00:05:28.966 - 00:06:09.188, Speaker A: In some countries, the middleman just exists there and just takes on the risk. Right. It's kind of like if you want to compare the risk that gets taken on there between, you know, bridging between different banks, I guess you can call it. It's the same as like bridging between different l two s on Ethereum or different, I guess, like optimistic roll ups where instead of going through the seven day withdrawal period, you use like hop, for example, and the LP's take on the risk and they basically give you liquidity in order to bridge there. I think the same is true within, within tradfi. And the settlement times are kind of like longer as well. But you don't get obviously, all the benefits of on chain stuff like auditability, verifiability, decentralization, all that sort of stuff there.
00:06:09.188 - 00:06:55.796, Speaker A: So, yeah, just wanted to hide this really cool product from zk p two p, which you can check out. I'll link the video in the YouTube description below. But also shout out to these guys, because a few of them here in the video, I think three of them in the three of them in the video here, of the four were at set protocol when I was working there, and I'm pretty sure two of them still are there and I worked with them. So yeah, shout out to those guys for innovating here and creating something really, really cool. All right, so arbitrum orbit is now mainnet ready. So for those of you who don't remember what arbitram orbit is, it, it's basically arbitrum's answer to roll up as a service, essentially, you could call it. So they said here you can permissionlessly build a customized chain using the most advanced scaling technology in the world using arbitram orbit.
00:06:55.796 - 00:07:24.838, Speaker A: And there already is an ecosystem of orbit chains out there. They seem to be targeting like something different to what Opstack is targeting. There's a lot of gaming chains from what I've seen here, or like NFT chains, so very different, I think, to what Opstack has been doing with the, I mean, it's a mixed bag, I think, with op stack for sure. But yeah, a lot of gaming chains there. You can see them here. They're linked in the, in this, in this thread here. And there's an explanation about basically what arbitram orbit chains come with, like the features such as any trust chain.
00:07:24.838 - 00:08:23.214, Speaker A: So basically storing data availability not on Ethereum but off chain stylus, which is their answer to basically being able to code up smart contracts in different programming languages besides solidity such as Rust C and C, while maintaining full AVM compatible compatibility and future upgrades to nitro. So the orbit chains can adopt any improvements made to the arbitrum nitro tech stack without approval from the Dow. So this includes features such as permissionless validation, mev capture, further cost reductions and more. So yeah, as I said, like very similar, I guess, to what op stack is doing to what Polygon is doing with their CDK, you know, to what Zeke, I think Zksync has a solution for this as well. But yeah, this is Arbitrum's answer to it. So you can go check this out. There is, there's the thread, and I believe there is a blog post, maybe it's kind of hard to tell cause Twitter bloody, they got rid of the links here, the link previews, but no, there's no blog post just yet.
00:08:23.214 - 00:08:55.934, Speaker A: But basically this is just an announcement that it is main net ready and ready for people to kind of like build with and getting. And you can get in touch with these roll up as a service providers if you are interested in building with arbitrum orbit chains here. All right, so you guys know that currently there is a retroactive public goods funding round being run by optimism. This is round three. And obviously the applications are still flowing in here. But what I wanted to highlight here is just how many applications have flowed in. So there's been over 1600 applications.
00:08:55.934 - 00:09:20.984, Speaker A: Now you have to assume that most of these applications are spam. And that's what they, that's what they kind of say in this tweet here where they said with great numbers comes increased potential for spam applications. Exactly. For this reason, there is currently a review process in place. Badge holders are leading this effort, carefully evaluating reported applications to ensure fairness. And you can actually see the results yourself at the website here, which is retro pgfhub.com review.
00:09:20.984 - 00:09:57.814, Speaker A: Yeah, I'll link this in the YouTube description below, but you can see how many projects have been reported. So there's 1038 that have been reported. Only 64 have been kept so far. And 849 projects have been removed with 125 pending review. And then you can search through which ones have been kept and which ones have been removed. Now the thing is, is that like, even though they're called spam, a lot of it is basically also flagging these things as being out of scope for what the retroactive public goods funding is. And for, I guess like what ends up happening with these rounds is that a lot of people submit an application and then they don't meet the criteria.
00:09:57.814 - 00:10:41.012, Speaker A: But they, they, they figure that, oh, well, I'll just kind of like throw this in there as a Hail Mary. Maybe I get something, because I did highlight last time that the rewards in the second round were quite substantial at like. And obviously that's going to attract people, like if there's money to be made here. But I'm glad that this review process exists because this was kind of a problem that I had with early on with, with gitcoin grants. I think it's gotten a lot better. But early on there was a lot of garbage projects that were, that would be kind of like listed there and they would potentially get funded because they promised things like airdrops or tokens to people who would, who would donate to them on gitcoin grants and things like that. So it would become very messy and very noisy and it would take money away from the more legitimate projects that actually deserved and actually needed it.
00:10:41.012 - 00:11:18.838, Speaker A: Um, and into these other projects that were just opportunistic so I think that with optimism's retroactive public goods funding rounds, they're trying to achieve the same. They're trying to achieve a goal here of basically filtering out as many of those projects as possible and rewarding the people and projects that actually fit the criteria. Now, disclosure here, I've submitted the daily Gwei to this. As far as I know, it hasn't been reported, and I think it has been accepted and kept here. Um, and, and I submitted that myself. But I am also a badge holder, um, for, uh, for the, um, for these kind of rounds here as well. Um, but like, I'm not obviously going to vote on myself or anything like that.
00:11:18.838 - 00:11:40.158, Speaker A: I'm going to abstain from that. I don't think I can. I think there's, there's a rule about that there. But yeah, I have submitted the deli gwei here. Not sure kind of what rewards I'm going to get from, from this, but I figured, you know what I mean? If people encouraged me as well to submit it, they're like, you know, you need to submit the, the delegue to this. Like, you, you know, you do a lot of good work, you should be rewarded for it, blah, blah. I'm like, okay, I was a bit hesitant to, to do it, but then I was like, you know what, I may as well.
00:11:40.158 - 00:12:21.214, Speaker A: We'll see how it goes there. So, yeah, just a disclosure there that I have applied for, for this round there. And I mean, I hope I don't get flagged to spam. I don't think I will, but, yeah, I think if you want to go through the projects yourself, as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below, but if you go through them, you can see exactly why they're flagged as spam. So it's not just basically badge holders removing things just for the sake of it. It's more that, as I said, they don't fit the scope, they don't fit the criteria. And the badge holders are trying to optimize for people that essentially are in it for the right reasons, are submitting applications for the right reasons, and are actually going to be rewarded for legitimate work rather than, you know, I guess, like something that's more opportunistic.
00:12:21.214 - 00:12:57.112, Speaker A: Right. But anyway, as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below and you can check it out for yourself. All right. So there was a bit of drama last week that I actually didn't end up covering on the refuel because I was waiting for kind of the chips to, to kind of settle down there, I guess, like stuff to settle down generally there. But the drama I'm talking about was around layer zero, which is a bridging protocol, launching a token called Wrapped Steth or WST ETH on various other networks. I think they launched it on avalanche, um, scroll, and one other network. I can't remember what the other network was.
00:12:57.112 - 00:13:33.848, Speaker A: It might have been binance smart chain. And they launched this token there and said that, oh, look, you can get now buy, you know, wrapped staked ETH on these networks through the, the layer zero kind of bridge. Now, the reason why it stirred up a lot of drama, at least from my understanding, is that this was not sanctioned by the Lido dao. And they also used the same ticker name as, obviously the ticker name of the official wrapped stellar layer one Ethereum and some other networks out there. So that was the Lido Dao immediately was just like, well, this is going to cause a lot of confusion for people. This is really dangerous. And this is basically not in the interest of creating a standard.
00:13:33.848 - 00:14:29.836, Speaker A: It's more in the interest of creating a vendor lock in, so to speak. You know, it's more, it's more just layer zero trying to create some sort of lock in here rather than working with other bridging protocols and other interoperability protocols in the ecosystem to create a standard. And in response to that, the other bridging protocols such as Connext, uh, you know, leafy seller, cross socket, uh, they're all listed here, uh, put together a unified call for open bridge standards where they've got four key points here that they posited saying that, uh, vendor locked proprietary standards are not standards. Lock ins create systemic risks. Token issuers should own their own tokens, and open provider agnostic standards encourage healthy competition. So I'm glad this was put out because as I was just saying, like, this vendor lock in stuff, when it comes to standards and bridges and money generally is just not going to work. Like, it's not going to work because one, as they say here, it is a systemic risk.
00:14:29.836 - 00:15:53.896, Speaker A: It causes a lot of risk, because what ends up happening is that if your vendor locked in kind of token becomes popular and then there's kind of like a major bug with it, right? Then what are you going to rely on the project to bail you out that you kind of like, did? Like, would they rely on lido to bail them out sort of thing? And then it also causes obviously a lot of confusion for users who are just like, you know, what am I buying, basically. And if that token is not officially supported by the project, then that token will not get it, probably not get a bailout, right, and probably not get any kind of help from the project itself. So there are so many just different security concerns here, so many different kind of technical concerns that we do need open bridge standards. And I'm very, very happy to see that these projects came together. In order to put this forward, which you can read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But the other bit of drama, I think, around this was more specific to Lido because it was kind of ironic that for the last few months at least, the lido kind of ecosystem, not everyone in there, but just generally had been kind of making fun of the social layer, right? Or at least maybe not making fun of it directly, but like watering down its importance in response to all of the talk about making sure that Lido's dominance on the beacon chain didn't go up from here and actually went down and people were making fun of things like the self limiting stuff, which I have said in the past that I thought was kind of like more virtue signaling than anything else.
00:15:53.896 - 00:16:23.926, Speaker A: But it was just ironic to see that after making fun of the social layer for so long now, they were actually calling to the social layer being. Being like, well, the social layer needs to push back on this. You know, they need to push back on proprietary standards on projects doing this. And that's exactly what has happened with this call for an open bridging standard. This is the social layer calling for this, guys. Like, yes, there'll be technical implementations of this, but this all starts at the social layer. So I just thought it was just amazingly ironic that that that kind of happened there.
00:16:23.926 - 00:17:03.986, Speaker A: And I had a little bit of a laugh to myself about it and with some of my friends. But I think that it should just kind of reinforce the importance of the social layer to people because, I mean, I've talked about this so much on the refuel. I think you can even go back to some of the earliest episodes of the refuel and see me talking about the social layer and its importance. Because at the end of the day, everything just like boils up from there. You know, the social layer really is the fire that boils the pot and boils all the ingredients in the pot. Like, if you want to use this weirdly loose analogy that I just came up with, that ethereum is a stew, right? Well, the, without the fire, the stew is not going to boil, so you need the fire, which is the social layer. And then you build everything else on top, basically, or you have everything else on top.
00:17:03.986 - 00:18:09.444, Speaker A: That's exactly what happens here. The social layer responds and basically pushes back against what layer zero did and comes up with a technical solution here, and then pushes that through and works on it for the years to come, which I'm sure that it's going to be worked on for many years here. Because, as I said before, bridging especially, is not just a security risk for the fact that bridges are such like honey pots, but it's also kind of like a standards risk, because I think I've articulated this a lot on the refuel, but just to refresh it for people, like, when you hop between chains and when you kind of move assets between chains, ultimately the. I guess, like, where that asset was issued is the settlement layer for that chain, right? So, for example, ETH on another chain is not ETH. It's ethio you from whatever bridging protocol you've used. Like, for example, if you move ETH through wormhole to Solana, wormhole technically has the ETH. Right? Even if you do, like a mince and burn and mint and burns don't.
00:18:09.444 - 00:18:28.726, Speaker A: I'm getting a little bit of off track here. Mint and burns are a different thing. But a lot of the bridges work the way of the example I just gave where that. That ETH on Solana is not real ETH, right? That ETH was not issued on Solana. It is. It is bridged via some. Some third party bridge where you basically have an iou, whereas ETH on ethereum is real ETH.
00:18:28.726 - 00:18:50.956, Speaker A: That is not an iou anymore. That is the asset. That ethereum is the settlement layer for ETH. The tokens issued on Ethereum are the settlement layer for that token. But then you have, like, L2s that have natively issued tokens where they're not issued on layer one at all. Then their settlement layer is L2, unless they're issued on layer one, which they're not. Right? So their settlement layer is the L2, and the L2 sentiment layer is layer one.
00:18:50.956 - 00:19:27.812, Speaker A: But that's more so for the assets that have been bridged in and things like that, like the actual assets on the L2 are settled down to the L2 itself. Right. And then, I mean, you can, you can keep going with this and you can keep kind of like daisy chaining, the bridging out and kind of getting as complex as you want. But that's why you need open standards here, because you need a way to track all of this you need a way to keep, keep track, all of this from an accounting point of view. And you need to reduce the risk and reduce lock in and vendor locking because it just doesn't work. It doesn't work at scale. It creates so many silos and at the end of the day, with on chain stuff, we try to eliminate as many silos as possible.
00:19:27.812 - 00:20:01.954, Speaker A: So. So yeah, anyway, you can go give this a read. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, applications for Gitcoin grants round 19 are now open, so you can go to grants dot Gitcoin Co to learn more and see the full list of rounds that are currently open for applications. And if you want to apply, make sure this isn't new. And they say this isn't you because there's a cat kind of like applying after the period ended. You have to apply by November 8 for a guaranteed review before Gitcoin grants round 19 kicks off.
00:20:01.954 - 00:20:59.444, Speaker A: So yeah, if you are building something that I guess like you want to get funded or if you're an individual doing things within the ecosystem, whether that's like kind of making educational content or other such things like that, you can apply to get coin grants around 19 here to be part of that round, do part of the matching pool and hopefully get a bit of money to continue the work that, that you've been doing here. But yeah, I did say that round 19, the dates for it were revealed. I think it was last week. I think it kicks off like the 15 November or something like that, or sometime in mid to late November there. So, yeah, and I'm sure a lot of you guys are going to donate to that once it's live as well. But yeah, as I said, make sure to get your applications in by November 8 if you are planning to apply for Gcoin grants around 19. All right, last up here, I just wanted to give a shout out to this, this conference, this crypto conference that I'm going to be attending in Sydney next month, next month being November, on the 23rd and 24 November here.
00:20:59.444 - 00:21:24.710, Speaker A: And the reason why I'm shouting this out is twofold. One, it's to give you guys advanced warning that there will be no refuels. I think for three days. It'll be like, actually it may, you know, it'll be three days. It'll be the 22nd, 23rd and 24 November. They're not technically rug fuels because I'm giving you advanced warning here. But yeah, I think the 22nd, 23rd and 24 November, there will be no refuels because I will be in Sydney for this event here.
00:21:24.710 - 00:22:08.380, Speaker A: And that is Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and then obviously I'll be back on the Monday there. Now secondly, the reason I'm shouting it out is because if you are looking for a crypto event to attend in Australia and you're either somewhere else in Australia or in Sydney, I can recommend this one. This one is being run by the same people who ran the last, last event that I went to in Sydney. There's always a bunch of good people there. It's not one of those classic kind of crypto conferences that just has moon boys and, you know, shitty kind of shilling. No, this is like basically a conference where people are in it for the tech, they want to discuss the tech, they don't really care to talk about the price. And it's a bunch of different people as us, not just crypto native people, but it's also people working in tradfi, working kind of like the legal arena, working in other kind of adjacent industries to crypto.
00:22:08.380 - 00:22:34.090, Speaker A: So it's going to be a really, really great thing here. So there are two days, as I said, 23rd and 24 November, which is the Thursday and Friday. The first day I think is the bulk of it, the content stream day one here, which you can check out. I mean, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And there's, there's more kind of, kind of details on the website here. I don't think tickets are on sale yet. They're on sale soon, so I don't think you can buy tickets just yet.
00:22:34.090 - 00:23:12.088, Speaker A: But yeah, they'll be, they'll be kind of like on, on sale soon there and then. Also, I wanted to say that I'll be speaking at this event. I think I'm speaking alongside Kane, Kane from Synthetix. And I think I've signed myself up to speak as much as possible, to be honest, because I feel like you can see the list of topics that they want to cover on the left hand side here. I feel like I could talk to any of these topics and I really want to be able to educate as many people as possible on, you know, as many of these topics as possible, especially when it comes to things like L2s, because I still think those things are very much misunderstood. Things like Mev as well, I think is very misunderstood. But just Ethereum's roadmap in general, I think it's just very, very misunderstood.
00:23:12.088 - 00:23:57.918, Speaker A: You know, this brings me to the last thing I actually want to talk about for today as a pivot from this, which, as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below. You can go check this out. But as a pivot from this, and basically related to what I was just talking about, there was this saying that us ethereums came up with like a few years ago. I don't know who came up with it or how it emerged, but it was this saying of the most bullish thing for Ethereum is for it to be understood, because Ethereum is inherently difficult to understand, I think. And I'm not talking about just understanding some Ethereum use cases like stable coins and nfts and web3 and whatever you want to call it. I'm talking about actually understanding what makes Ethereum as a network valuable and what makes ETH as an asset valuable. Those two things require a lot of context to actually get people to understand why it's valuable.
00:23:57.918 - 00:24:59.250, Speaker A: Because I can sit there and explain to someone what the ethereum network does, you know, how it works, what use cases there are, why I find them valuable, but to get them to actually, and I'm talking about like someone totally new to crypto, to get them to actually understand it on a fundamental level takes quite a while, right? And then for them to understand on a fundamental level why ETH is valued the way it is. Because what a lot of the pushback I usually get is people saying, well, if people only need ETH for the network and it's like a fee token, why would anyone hold ETH other than to use it for fees? And then obviously I have to go into, give a lot of context around what a store of value is, what a money actually is, what monetary premium is, why people think ETH is this. And there's a lot of education that needs to be done there. I mean, I could spend so long talking to people about this, right? But obviously I don't have unlimited time with people. So I mean, a lot of the times I just kind of, I wouldn't say make it up on the spot, but I've kind of, there's no script about it. I just kind of come explain to people what comes to my head. But as I said, it goes back to that saying of like the most bullish thing for Ethereum is to be understood.
00:24:59.250 - 00:25:38.390, Speaker A: Because once you understand Ethereum as a network, once you understand the value, and then once you understand how that value flows to ETH, then it becomes a thing of, wow, you know, I need to buy ETH, right? That's, that's kind of what it's been for me for years now. It's like, I need more ETH, right? And I think it's for what it is for a lot of you guys out there. And it doesn't just apply to Ethereum, it applies to various different projects as well. I think that there are big ambitious projects out there, like chain link, for example. I mean, I think chain link, they've been building for so long now, and I think people misunderstand that as just being an oracle network, right? And this is the same thing where people are like, oh, chain links, just an oracle network where, no, it's actually much more than that. Right? Like much, much more than that. Same with Ethereum.
00:25:38.390 - 00:26:35.258, Speaker A: Ethereum is not just a network for people to kind of like gamble on. On Ponzi tokens, right? Ethereum is much, much more than that, and he's home to much, much more than that. But for people to understand that, they have to actually dive a bit deeper than the surface level stuff. So, yeah, that's why it goes back to what I said about the most bullish thing for Ethereum, and obviously ETH as well is to be understood. And it's in stark contrast, I think, to something like bitcoin, where the more you understand bitcoin, I think to a point, the, the potentially more bearish you can become on it because I think it's, there's a certain type of person that is attracted to bitcoin as a primary thing and attracted to BTC, the asset as a primary thing. But if you want to do more, if you want to be more expressive about it and you want to kind of like express a view more, you know, more openly, you can't really do that with bitcoin, right. Bitcoin has a very, very distinct, and I think like monoculture view about what it is and what the BTC, the asset is, right? But then when it comes to Ethereum, it's obviously much more expressive.
00:26:35.258 - 00:27:46.060, Speaker A: But I think that's to bitcoin's advantage, because it's much easier for people to understand bitcoin and understand the value prop of something like digital gold than it is for them to understand something like the world computer as ethereum has been known in the past, right, or a settlement layer, as Ethereum has been known for. And then how at the crew's value from that. So it's just different kind of fundamental value drivers and narratives and stuff like that. And there's also kind of a network effect to it as well, where essentially bitcoin obviously has the network effect, has a bigger network effect than ethereum does. And that's reflected in the price of the asset, that's reflected in the, I guess, like meme share that it has. I think I use the term meme share to mean kind of like its narrative, its kind of mentions outside of crypto, because obviously outside of crypto, bitcoin is a thing that all the mainstream media uses to reference crypto generally. But then also, I think I've mentioned this on the review before, until it gets to the day where I feel comfortable telling people that, saying to people that I work in Ethereum, rather than saying to them that I work in crypto, or telling them, hey, you know, do you know what bitcoin is? And then saying, oh yeah, I work in that, that industry, until I feel comfortable knowing that someone actually knows what Ethereum is.
00:27:46.060 - 00:28:16.752, Speaker A: And it's become like kind of a mainstream thing. I think that Ethereum is definitely very far away from being understood by the majority. And there's different levels of understanding too, of course. Like you can go as deep as you want with this sort of stuff, but that's my bull case is that more and more people, over time understand Ethereum, understand the value of ETH. And that's why over time, Ethereum and ETH get more valuable. And I, and I think that's been true up until today, and I think it's going to be true for decades to come there. But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today.
00:28:16.752 - 00:28:24.704, Speaker A: So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter Join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
