00:00:00.960 - 00:01:23.344, Speaker A: Well, thanks everyone for attending this. And also to Ben and Ron and Cenk and others for inviting me and putting on this really great symposium. So we've heard this through ad nauseum already, but just to set stage, cancer is an evolutionary process, and it really has, this has some implications from both a computational convenience perspective, in the sense that we can start to model cancers as following a phylogenetic process. And so, given the rich amount of mathematical development over the last several decades, this really becomes really quite nice, because we can leverage all this. We can view a cancer as composed of multiple cells, and these cells can be related by descent through their mutations and such that ancestral mutations are at the root of the tree. And these would be the mutations that are part of the original clonal expansion. And descendant mutations would occur later in evolution in a subset in one cell, which then undergoes expansion, such that the mutations here would be of low prevalence in the tumor overall and mutually exclude, exclusive to those in other phylogenetic branches.
00:01:23.344 - 00:02:27.828, Speaker A: And so what we're interested in in my group is really trying to understand how the properties of evolution lead to the clinical endpoints of interest in cancer, which is how does this relate to treatment response, progression, metastasis, or even immune response. And so, another conceptual idea here is that these clones, or cells, have to navigate a fitness landscape. And this fitness landscape can be driven by many different factors. And it's a dynamic landscape as well, such that if there's a treatment intervention or a dynamic immune response, this landscape shifts. And so clones that may have low fitness at one point may then climb the landscape such that they have higher fitness at another point in time. And so, if we start to think about fitness landscapes, it helps us to interpret dynamics that we might see in a clinical trajectory of cancer. And so, fitness can be measured.
00:02:27.828 - 00:03:26.204, Speaker A: It has several different properties. I've just listed three of them here. One is that genetic diversity is a complex quantity, only partially explains phenotypic variation. And so, if we can start to elucidate what components of genetic diversity actually lead to phenotypic variation, which is what selection actually acts on, then we might get closer to be able to quantify fitness in cancer clones. The second idea is population dynamics. So, the cell populations that comprise a tumor, the constituent clones at one time point that evolves over time, such that the composition of a tumor may change from something that looks like this to something that looks like this. And so, being able to quantify, measure, model these population dynamics, gives us some notion of a component of fitness.
00:03:26.204 - 00:04:16.154, Speaker A: And finally, is the role of microenvironmental selective pressures. These tumors are involving in very dynamic anatomic landscapes that are subject to, like I said, immune invasion, immune response, and also particular environments of metastatic sites that are quite variable across our human anatomy. And so understanding this gives us a route towards that. So hopefully, I'll show you examples of where we've addressed each of these problems and have made some steps towards our goal of inference. Fitness landscapes. So let's start with what mutations impact phenotype. So this part will be very reminiscent of what you just heard from Josh.
00:04:16.154 - 00:05:24.224, Speaker A: We developed a method called exeq, and what we have made the assumption is that by integrating mutations with gene expression, we're using gene expression as a sort of proxy, quite a distant proxy for phenotype. But nonetheless, because of the abundance of data, we're making this assumption that if we could ascertain which mutations are impacting gene expression, then that gives us a little closer to those mutations that are functionally active in the cell. And so we developed this method called exeq. And so it takes its input, a matrix of mutations in patients. This is a binary matrix. Is this gene mutated in this patient? It takes the same dimensionality matrix of expression, continuous valued expression measurements in those same patients. And then, borrowing from Ben, the notion of an influence graph where we have connected genes, and we want to ascertain, does the mutation impact expression in its connected genes in this influence graph.
00:05:24.224 - 00:06:12.220, Speaker A: Okay, so this is a probabilistic graphical model where we have several layers. The first layer is at the gene level. So given this matrix across the population of patients, does the gene, when mutated, impact expression? That's just a binary random variable. Then we have the mutation level binary variable. Does the mutation in the patient of interest impact expression in that patient? So we get down to patient level inference, and I'll show you the impact of that in a few slides. Then this is just the latent variable that suggests whether a gene is upregulated or down regulated. And so if you explode this out, this here, this mutation connects to all of its neighbors in the influence graph.
00:06:12.220 - 00:07:15.544, Speaker A: And so that's what this plate is here. And then we have the directionality of influence up. Is it upregulated or downregulated? And so when we complete our inference, we get something that looks like this, where we have the mutation of interest. If this is bright red, then this suggests the posterior probability that that mutation in that patient is influencing expression is high. And so you can see here the neighbors of this gene and the influence graph, and the, the saturation of the color here represents the degree to which that gene is disrupted in this particular patient. So there's two modes that we run this model in. One is the cis mode, which is does the mutation impact the expression of that particular gene? And then there's the trans mode, which is, does this mutation impact all of its neighbors? So just the results from the cis mode, this is really has, we've shown, is really potent in identifying potential tumor suppressor candidates.
00:07:15.544 - 00:07:58.150, Speaker A: So this is where loss of function, mutation, or deletion has essentially disrupted or depleted the expression of that gene in the sample. And so this is just the application of this to the TCGA pan cancer. This is twelve tumor types, almost 3000 tumors, 500,000 mutations. These are the tumor types here. And so just to point out, so all of these genes show evidence of having cis regulated activity when mutated. And so they're marked here by cancer gene census genes. So the traditional players, p 53, rb one, nf one, p ten, these are known tumor suppressor genes.
00:07:58.150 - 00:09:19.634, Speaker A: And then we have some novel predictions shown in orange, and these would be predictions where integration of expression has actually reached into infrequently mutated genes, very reminiscent of what Josh showed, in the sense that these are genes that were not predicted by frequency based methods as drivers that just look at the mutation in the context of the population. So here's music, which is a tool that just looks at the frequency of mutation relative to its background mutation rate and identifies genes that look like they're significantly mutated. You can see that there are a lot of genes here that essentially don't have any predictions for music, but have all the hallmarks of a tumor suppressor phenotype in these cancer types. And these mutations, they all have the properties of loss of function mutations. So stop codon mutations, frame shifting, insertions and deletions, they tend to occur in hemizygous deletion regions, are biolelically inactivated. And so if you read the paper, you can look at all the gory details. We have essentially diagrams for every single one of these genes that shows the distribution of mutations, and there's very strong evidence that these are probably rare candidate tumor suppressors.
00:09:19.634 - 00:10:07.802, Speaker A: So, in summary, this showed 30 novel candidates from our analysis in cis, and then 80 novels candidates, 89 novel candidates in trans. And so this is what the trans type of analysis looks like. And the implication here is that at the patient, because we're inferring the disruption of expression at the patient level, this has a tremendous implication. So this is all of the cases in the endometrial TCGA data set that have beta catenin mutation. So, beta catenin mutation is known to constitutively activate the Wnt signaling pathway. This is the actual mechanism by which these cancers are thought to arise. And so these are the genes in the Wnt signaling pathway.
00:10:07.802 - 00:11:12.774, Speaker A: And in the columns here are the patients. You can see that there's a fair number of patients where these genes are abundantly over regulated, and these genes here are actually down regulated, tremendous disruption to the WN signaling pathway here in these patients that exhibit beta catenin mutations. But if we look at these patients over here, about 25% of patients that harbor beta catenin mutation do not show this activation of the Wnt signaling pathway. So if we were just to look at trying to diagnose this patient or actually make some decision based on the presence of the mutation, chances are that these patients would behave very differently to some treatment intervention in these patients here. And so by doing patient level mutation activity stratification, we can really separate the patients into two groups. And as it turns out, these are patients that are hyper mutators. And so, actually, the mutation is likely to be a passenger event in those particular patients, but is clearly driving in these patients here.
00:11:12.774 - 00:12:12.730, Speaker A: Okay, so that's one way to attack the idea of what mutations are actually impacting phenotype. So let's move on to the second idea, which is population dynamics. So, we've discussed this a few times at the meeting. This is a nice figure from Nico's paper, whereby we can use the digital capacity of these sequencing devices to measure allele prevalence in a DNA mixture. And so, allele prevalence has some relationship to the proportion of cells in the mixture that harbor the mutation, but it's not a direct relationship. And so we have to do some transformation of the data in order to ascertain what percentage of cells actually harbor my mutation of interest. Once we have the percentage of cells of several different mutations, then we can start to reconstruct what this picture might look like.
00:12:12.730 - 00:13:03.924, Speaker A: So what is, are the constituent clones that make up my tumor. So when we start, we actually, all these bubbles might be gray, these cells here, and we don't know what the composition is. And so what we want to try to do is, from deeply sequenced mutations, is reconstruct what this picture might look like. And so the two terms of interest here are allelic prevalence, which is the number of reads that harbor the mutation over the total, and then the cellular prevalence, which is the proportion of cells in the tumor that harbor the mutation. So when we do deep, when we perform deep sequencing through pcr or capture, whatever method you choose, the allele fractions end up being a compound measure of several different factors. So we have an unknown proportion of non malignant cells. These can be lymphocytes, it can be stroma.
00:13:03.924 - 00:13:56.830, Speaker A: So that will impact this measurement. Here we have the unknown population structure, which I mentioned already. So if the mutation of interest is, for example, in this orange population, it may be there in 15% of cells, and so that will impact the allelic prevalence. And then finally, we have this concept of mutational genotypes. So in a normal diploid genome like this, if all else being equal, if all cells harbor a heterozygous mutation, then the allele fraction will be 50%. But if all cells harbored a homozygous mutation like this, whereby we had, let's say, loss of heterozygosity followed by a copy number change, then all of the alleles would show the mutation. So you'd have an allele fraction of 100%.
00:13:56.830 - 00:14:43.214, Speaker A: Here we have a copy number change followed by mutation. So we have four copies of the genome at that, and that would yield an allele fraction of 25%. So you can see that in these three different scenarios, the cellular prevalence is equivalent, but the allele fraction is very different. So we need to be able to grapple with all these different factors. And so we developed a model called PI clone that can resolve these different explanations for the same allele fraction. And the input to PI clone looks like something like this. We assume that we have data from multiple samples, and so we have the rows here, just the locus, the mutation of interest, and then we have the allele fraction for all of the different samples.
00:14:43.214 - 00:15:24.812, Speaker A: And then, actually, we have an independent measure of copy number at each one of these samples as well, in order to allow us to leverage that information to deconvolute these mixtures. So it's another bayesian hierarchical model. You can tell. I like this kind of modeling. The three parameters of interest are that we want to cluster mutations that are assumed to be in the same cells. We want to estimate their prevalence, and then we have this parameter that we marginalize over, which is the mutational genotype. So this is all detailed in the paper, and I'm not going to spend too much time on that, but this is the most important, which is this is the conceptual output.
00:15:24.812 - 00:16:19.066, Speaker A: And so what's shown here is we have multiple measurements of these mutations. So there are about, let's say, 150 mutations in this experiment that we executed and measured, and this was an engineered experiment where we actually had serial dilutions of two cell lines with non overlapping sets of mutations. So we mixed them at known proportions in order to simulate what would happen if we could measure one clone growing at the expense of the other. And they had some mutations in common. So these stayed. So the axis here is the inferred cellular prevalence of the mutations. And then the colors here represent clusters of mutations that essentially travel together, that we believe when they travel together, it entitles us to think that these are representing one clone.
00:16:19.066 - 00:17:02.466, Speaker A: And if they certainly. If these lines cross these, these must be in a different clone, because they can't. The abundance of these clones can't go up and down at the same time. Okay, so this allows us to infer these evolutionary trajectories, and we might then project that here's a clone that's undergoing expansion, here's a clone that's undergoing extinction. So that's theoretically what it looks like. So how do we apply this to real world situations? So, we've been measuring these population dynamics through temporal sampling of tumors. So we've now executed a study where we wanted to compare what are the clonal dynamics in transformed follicular lymphomas versus progressive follicular lymphoma.
00:17:02.466 - 00:17:50.470, Speaker A: So, follicular lymphoma is an indolent lymphoma. A subset of patients will undergo a histological transformation at some point in their clinical trajectory. And what happens is they get a sudden onset of symptoms, and the tumor goes from this very indolent disease to something that's very aggressive. And the patients that undergo this transformation have very poor outcomes, so they stop responding to therapy, and many succumb. And then these are progressed where these are patients where they go on treatment, combination immuno and chemotherapy, but they don't respond. They progress while on treatment or within two years of starting treatment. So these are the two clinical endpoints that are of major consideration in the management of this disease.
00:17:50.470 - 00:18:36.712, Speaker A: And then we compare these to long term non progressors. So these are patients that essentially do fairly well. So the workflow that we executed looks something like this. The whole genome sequencing of matched pairs of the diagnostic specimen and the relapse specimen, and then plotted their allele fractions inferred from whole genome sequencing on an axis. So this is the allele fraction of mutations for the diagnostic versus the relapse, t one versus t two. And you can see that there are mutations on the axes here, which suggests that there are some mutations in clones that are probably not present at diagnosis. And then there are some mutations in diagnostic clones that actually don't expand in the relapse biopsy.
00:18:36.712 - 00:19:34.094, Speaker A: So we selected some of these mutations and performed deep sequencing and then inferred the cellular prevalence of these mutations through PI clone, and then schematically just represent them with these bubbles. So here, this is mutations that probably represent the ancestral clone here. And then we can look at the clones that are essentially on the axis. So this is a clone that was very rare, if existent at all, in the diagnostic specimen that has come to dominate the relapse specimen. And what you can see is essentially there are no clones here in the middle of this diagram. And so that suggests that the composition of the t two biopsy is essentially almost non existent here in the t one biopsy. And that has tremendous implications for being able to predict what patients are going to respond and which ones will transform.
00:19:34.094 - 00:20:27.644, Speaker A: So we can project this onto a clone phylogeny and then also look at the composition of those clones in the t one versus t two. So that's the workflow. And the result here is that the transform samples exhibited this pattern that I mentioned where we had really extreme clonal dynamics in between the diagnostic and the transformation biopsy. And there's some hints as to what mutations might be driving that. But the main story here is that the composition of the diagnostic specimen is very different than the transformation specimen, even though they're clonally related. And we did do multiple samples of the diagnostic specimen to ensure that this wasn't just a sampling bias, that we might have missed some clones. So the story here is that there's a rapid clonal expansion of a very rare clone in the t one samples.
00:20:27.644 - 00:21:29.208, Speaker A: By contrast, those patients that are progressed on therapy, you can see that there's actually quite a lot of clones that are actually in the middle of this diagram, which suggests that even in the presence of this big selective pressure of therapy, the intrinsic properties of resistance are probably already encoded at the diagnostics specimen. And so it means that the dynamics here are relatively stable. The clonal composition, you can see that a lot of the clones are present in both the t one and t two. So here's one here, this pink one, this green one, this blue one, and similarly for this case here. So the story here is that by actually measuring these clonal dynamics, we get two very different models of progression in these different clinical endpoints of the same disease. So transformation is underpinned by a dramatic clonal expansion of a very rare clone that comes to dominate the t two specimen. And this can happen, by the way, without any kind of intervention whatsoever.
00:21:29.208 - 00:22:09.072, Speaker A: Some of these patients are actually just put on observation, and so it's independent of treatment. It's also independent of time to transformation. So we had one case that looked like this, that was under observation for 15 years and then transformed another case that was under observation for just six months and transformed and exhibited exactly the same pattern. So we can have. This pattern seems to be independent of time to transformation and also of treatment. Whereas in the treatment relapse cases, where these are cases that progressed on therapy, you can see a lot of the architecture is preserved. So this green clone is maintained, the blue one, the pink one, this, et cetera.
00:22:09.072 - 00:23:17.604, Speaker A: There's some dynamics, but most of the architecture is preserved. And the implications for this is that the pre existing phenotype is already established at the time of diagnosis. And so there is some hope here that we could leverage the clonal composition of the diagnostic specimen to predict what patients might exhibit resistance or refractoriness to therapy. Okay, so that's just an application of clonal dynamics and population dynamics. So a major question that arises, is there any kind of deterministic process that's driving this, or is it just a random stochastic observation? And so the only way to really resolve this is to be able to do repeated experiments. You can't do that in a patient. So we've engaged a collaboration with Sam Aparicio, who's the chair of breast cancer research at the cancer agency, and he's been developing xenograft, patient derived xenograft lines of primary breast cancers with the intention to look for susceptibility to drugs in these preclinical model systems.
00:23:17.604 - 00:24:39.794, Speaker A: We started asking questions about what are the evolutionary dynamics of taking a patient tumor and removing it from an immune surveilled patient and putting it into an immunodeficient mouse in the xenograph. And so that's the other important aspect of this, is that these are serially passage xenografts, such that when the tumor grows to a certain size, the mouse is sacrificed and the tumor is excised, and then that material is retransplanted into another mouse. And so, essentially, we have this longitudinal time series repeated. We can repeatedly assay the population over time. And so what we found, and most of the details are in the paper here, but what we found is that over time, we observed significant clonal dynamics and even saw these sweeps that are actually reminiscent of the histological transformation follicular lymphoma. And so basically, what we concluded here is that by taking the patient material and putting it into a new environment, massive clonal dynamics can actually occur. And this is an assumption that the patient derived xenografts recapitulate the biology of the patient tumor.
00:24:39.794 - 00:25:48.616, Speaker A: And we're suggesting that in some cases, this is likely to be violated. That assumption, we validated these clonal dynamics with single cell sequencing that I won't have time to go over, but the point I really want to make is that we did these repeated measures whereby we did biological replicates and took the same population and engrafted them into independent mice. And what's shown here is that across four different mice, in this example, the green clone expands at the expense of the red clone in every single example. And so there's some reproducibility to the patterns of these clonal dynamics. And that really does suggest that there's a deterministic property that's driving this process. And maybe some alleles actually have a major selective coefficient and selection is acting on those alleles. So this also sets a stage because it suggests that these deterministic properties might be predictive, especially in the context of drug selection experiments.
00:25:48.616 - 00:26:20.964, Speaker A: So if there's an intervention and we see these reproducible dynamics, then we can really start to ascertain what are the mechanisms behind that. But the first step is to actually see these reproducible dynamics. And so we've done that at this point. Okay, so, moving on here. So the last component was microenvironmental selective pressures. And to study this, we've been looking at high grade serous ovarian cancers. These are ovarian cancers that exhibit extremely poor five year survival rates.
00:26:20.964 - 00:27:01.884, Speaker A: Many of the patients respond initially to standard of care platinum taxane therapy, but nearly 80% will recur. They're characterized by p 53 mutations and BRCA abnormalities, leading to homologous recombination deficiency. And so they have this genomically unstable phenotype. And then at the time of diagnosis, because these tumors develop within the peritoneal cavity, there's lots of opportunity for cells to move around. And so when patients present, there's often a high degree of spread. So sometimes we see bilateral disease. We'll often see foci on the omentum or other organs within the peritoneal cavity.
00:27:01.884 - 00:28:06.934, Speaker A: So we engaged in this study with surgeon Jessica McAlpine, who's treating these patients. And what Jessica did is essentially at the time of primary debulking, surgery is to harvest all of these tissues and label, essentially where they came from. And then what we did is sequence the genomes and profile their clonal composition such that we could draw these diagrams. So first thing we did is establish a clone phylogeny. And this was done through, in some cases, single cell sequencing, in other cases, through deep targeted sequencing using the workflow that I showed. And then what we did is we could ask, what is the clonal composition of each of these samples? One thing to observe here is that here's a sample, this left ovary b, two, that's composed of multiple clones. So this is what we would call a very diverse sample, whereas other samples are very homogeneous, so they're only made up of one clone.
00:28:06.934 - 00:29:10.924, Speaker A: And across the different sites, those clones were different. And so this is consistent with a model that there's a site of clonal origin, if you will, where there's lots of diversity happening, and then there's unidirectional spread to all these different sites. Okay, almost done. So this is one model where we saw this one site of diversity, and then unidirectional spread to all these different sites. The contrasting model that we saw was, in some patients, we saw something that looked like this, where we had multiple clones, for example, this red and yellow clone that coexisted in multiple different sites. So this suggested that either they traveled together, these clones traveled together, or there was repeated mixing and bidirectional spread throughout the peritoneal cavity in these cases. And so we have these contrasting modes of spread that can be tracked using these clonal lineages.
00:29:10.924 - 00:30:22.562, Speaker A: So why does this really matter? Well, if we had one patient for which we had time series data, so this was, we had the patient at diagnosis, an initial relapse to the brain, and then a subsequent relapse again to the area in the pelvis. And so what we found is that at diagnosis, there was a sample that had this diversity property, this one down here, and actually, both of the clones that dominated each of the metastasis. So this one here, this yellow one, dominated the brain metastasis, and this red one dominated the pelvic relapse. These were already present at diagnosis. So if we could have captured or done some analysis on this sample and decomposed the constituent clones in this sample, then we might have intervened in a way that would have prevented these metastasis. So this relapse is driven by this clone, and this relapse driven by that clone there. So it has implications for being able to intervene at an early stage prior to.
00:30:22.562 - 00:31:13.612, Speaker A: To spread. So then, just to conclude, so, we've all in agreement that cancer arises from individual evolutionary processes. And hopefully, what I've shown you is that there are tractably measurable properties and coupled with computational modeling, that lead us closer to being able to ascertain the fitness landscape I showed you. Genotype to phenotype inference, reproducible population dynamics are going to be an essential ingredient. And then the spatial distributions suggest that there are clones that are being selected for differentially in different microenvironments. And so I think the stage is set now for characterization of tumors as evolving biological systems with quantifiable fitness landscapes. There's a lot of work to be done to get there, because we have to now introduce the mathematics behind population dynamics and fitness and selection.
00:31:13.612 - 00:31:42.924, Speaker A: But the measurement technology and just the inference of these properties, I think, is now well established. So now I'll just thank my collaborators, Jessica McAlpine, David Huntsman, Sam Maparisio, Blake Jokes, Randy Gascoigne, and a really cadre of amazing graduate students that I learned from every day, Andrew Roth, Andrew McPherson, Fong Chan, Adi Stief, Jari Ding, and Peter Iru. And lastly, I'll thank the funders and thank you for your attention.
00:31:49.284 - 00:32:19.744, Speaker B: So, in your follicular lymphoma example, you've got this deeply rooted branch coming off. And one possibility seems to me that the deeply rooted branch is functionally an independent cancer. Right. It's so early that it's sharing, what, like, 15% of the mutation core or something like that. And is there a model for that, for that recurrence or progression to be more similar to another different type of cancer altogether?
00:32:19.864 - 00:33:11.564, Speaker A: Yeah, so that's a great question. So one of the markers, one of the mutations that seems to track with this pattern are CCND three mutations. And this is a hallmark of Burkitt lymphoma, actually, which is a really aggressive type of B cell lymphoma. And so what seems to be happening is there's acquisition of. Of these driver mutations that are known to be the early events in other B cell malignancies that are acquired at some point, and then they seem to have a selective coefficient that is quite extraordinary in the sense that proliferation then just explodes. So the problem is that the core sampling suggests that we're only doing two time points here. So it's very difficult to ascertain when is the mutation acquired.
00:33:11.564 - 00:33:23.416, Speaker A: There's some evidence to suggest that. So we've done digital PCR on some of these alleles, and there's actually zero evidence of these alleles in some of the diagnostic specimens.
00:33:23.520 - 00:34:12.846, Speaker B: But I don't think there has to be. I mean, I think that's the. My position would be that this is functionally independent cancer in a sort of equivalent of mds, right? You've got some pre cancer state that's sort of hyper proliferative, and it yields something like this indolent follicular lymphoma. But the progenitor of that thing is hyper proliferative, monosome, but would not even yield the follicular lymphoma phenotype. And that the transformative event that yields this highly progressive, nasty thing is happening in that founder population. The follicular lymphoma is like a warning sign for the independent thing, that you're likely to get this follicular lymphoma first, but it's not necessarily the same disease in any way, shape or form.
00:34:12.990 - 00:34:48.354, Speaker A: I think that's absolutely true, and I think that histological transformation almost defines that. Even under the microscope, these cells look different. They have large nuclei and they're now. They're now diffused. So there is this morphological change that accompanies this, but the actual events that lead to that is still kind of murky. But what's quite extraordinary is the clonal dynamics are extreme. They're really the most extreme you could observe.
00:34:48.734 - 00:35:10.053, Speaker C: So I have a question about the exmograph model. So you showed that on your figure that there was a whole lot more dynamics in the mouse model than we could see in the patient. Is that because of the experimental sampling, or is that the immune response that was compromised into.
00:35:10.673 - 00:35:45.284, Speaker A: Yeah, so I showed you the most extreme example out of 15. So, just to illustrate the point. But even in that very complex example, the dynamics were reproducible. So in some cases, we didn't see such extreme dynamics, we only saw moderate dynamics. In some cases, actually, the clonal architecture was mostly preserved, only slightly changing. So there isn't a universal pattern that we saw that you could make the case that lack of immune system is allowing chaos to then accrue. But that's an assumption we're making.
00:35:47.244 - 00:35:55.468, Speaker D: Frank, you showed in the how a minor clone of presentation later becomes dominant at relapse after treatment.
00:35:55.516 - 00:35:56.104, Speaker A: Right?
00:35:56.564 - 00:36:04.144, Speaker D: You reckon this is due to selection pressure by the microenvironment, or is there an effect of the selective sweep induced by the treatment, by the therapy?
00:36:05.004 - 00:36:42.140, Speaker A: So what's. Yeah, so actually, it's paradoxical. So that was the interesting thing about comparing the cases that progressed on treatment versus the histologically transformed cases. So you would anticipate that the cases that were treated would have to go through those clones, would have to go through some evolutionary bottleneck and actually would have these selective sweeps. But actually what we observed was the opposite. So in those cases, the clone architecture is mostly preserved. So the diagnostic specimen was actually very reflective of what we saw in the relapse on treatment.
00:36:42.140 - 00:37:05.044, Speaker A: But the surprising finding was that in these untreated cases, that transformed, that's when we observe this massive selective sweep. So that suggests that it is an allele that has a very strong selective coefficient that is able to emerge from the neutrality assumption.
00:37:05.124 - 00:37:09.518, Speaker D: So this brain metastasis that you showed was. That was untreated.
00:37:09.686 - 00:37:22.234, Speaker A: Oh, sorry, I thought you were talking about the follicular lymphoma patients. So the brain metastasis was ovary. Yeah. So that was treated. Those would have been treated cases. Yeah.
00:37:24.374 - 00:38:09.194, Speaker E: Nico's question and then go. So, great talk. Thanks. In the population dynamics part, I was quite surprised that you say there's one group that has additional clonal expansions and the other one tends to have little variation. Maybe you can comment a bit on the time scale of observation, what variation is, and then towards the interpretation. I mean, I'm not so convinced that even if those with little change have already high level of drug resistance, which I think was the explanation for that, I would expect even in that situation, there is a large number of additional mutations that can increase fitness. So why would you not see any current expansions anymore?
00:38:09.234 - 00:38:49.144, Speaker A: I have a hard time making sense, yes. So to address the first part, I'll just show you some of the variation in the time scales. So what's pretty, what we found is, so you see that some of these transformation cases, the time scales are very short. The extreme example was 15 years. And in those two cases that I point out, both were just put under observation. There was no therapy applied. So that suggests that the pattern of these kind of dramatic expansions is independent of time.
00:38:49.144 - 00:39:38.490, Speaker A: It's not just. We didn't only observe that pattern in the one with the large time interval, we saw it in short time intervals as well. And then. So with respect to the second question, so, well, I think what we're observing is quite paradoxical in the sense that we're treating in the second group there, we're treating these patients with multi agent therapy. And the clonal architecture for the most part is conserved, and it's really just relative to the dramatic expansions we saw in the transform cases, the architecture is mostly preserved. There were some dynamics still, but we saw clones that were readily detectable in the diagnostic specimen that were still there. So they hadn't been eradicated by the treatment.
00:39:38.490 - 00:39:44.334, Speaker A: It wasn't some new cancer that has arisen in that time interval.
00:39:46.554 - 00:40:00.372, Speaker E: I'm trying to understand. So the ones where nothing has changed. And when you observe it, can that alone explain it?
00:40:00.388 - 00:40:17.934, Speaker A: Can't alone explain it? Because we see, you can see that there are some cases in this regime where the biopsies were very close together. And actually, in some cases, we had some time in between lab specimen, so.
00:40:19.194 - 00:40:20.794, Speaker E: Okay, let's thank the speakers again.
