00:00:00.650 - 00:01:02.282, Speaker A: Moving something between unhosted wallets or self hosted wallets itself seems hard to say is money laundering. I mean, this is the same thing as using tornado cash. If I took all of my crypto right now, put it into tornado cash and brought it back, not doing anything else remotely illegal, that in and of itself is not illegal. If you committed a crime and then tried to cure the trail of that money by putting it through tornado cash or other means, that could arguably be money laundering. So again, we come up to the question that we talked about before. If he had the proceeds of the crime and he was moving them from wallet to wallet to wallet in some attempt to hide his trail, one could make an argument that that would be money laundering. Now, I don't think it's a very strong argument, right? This isn't legal advice, but if you're going to commit crimes, it's usually not a good idea to do it on public blockchains that leave an immutable permanent trace of your activity.
00:01:02.282 - 00:01:57.290, Speaker A: That's not legal advice. The legal advice is like, don't commit crime. But if you're going to do it, leaving a trace like that doesn't strike me as very effective money laundering. Now, of course, ineffective criminals are punished all the time, right? If you try something and you do it in a stupid way and you are caught, you can't say what I did was so stupid you couldn't possibly have believed I was trying to rob the store. No, that doesn't work. But there really is a good question about whether moving money from one self hosted wallet to another could really count as trying to hide a trail of money when the trail of money is all going to be right there for everyone to see. And of course, that's even before we get to the questions that we raised earlier about doing that in advance of any kind of purchase that would be allegedly illegal.
00:01:57.370 - 00:02:10.550, Speaker B: If you enjoyed watching this clip, hop onto Youtube.com C Unchained podcast to watch the entire episode. And don't forget to subscribe while you're there. You can also listen to the whole show on any of your favorite podcasting platforms.
