00:00:00.250 - 00:01:06.100, Speaker A: We apply the same decentralization principles as a blockchain to this problem. So a blockchain has many independent node operators that verify transactions and encode them into blocks that they then all store and confirm to be true. And they do this across hundreds or thousands of nodes. And this decentralization of both the process of validating transactions and storing them creates an assurance about this tamper proof state and this tamper proof on chain agreement. We have large networks of independent computing systems that actually have reputation and that have a history of successfully performing the delivery of data of a certain type. And then those independent computing systems which value their reputation and value their ability to continue delivering data go to multiple data sources. So in your example, they would go to the data sources you mentioned and to 20 others, such that in order to manipulate the outcome of the contract, you wouldn't have to manipulate one data source or two or three, you'd have to manipulate 20 or 30 or 50 or more.
00:01:06.100 - 00:02:18.930, Speaker A: And in fact, what we see and what I think will continue is two important nuanced trends. The first one is that as the value secured in the contract that's triggered by the Oracle network increases, you will see a demand for greater and greater network size. As more value goes into these contracts, the importance of securing it through multiple independent computing systems and multiple data sources grows. The second nuanced dynamic that I think will appear is that as more value is triggered by data, data will become more valuable. So there will actually be a large market for the provision of high quality data to smart contracts that find it increasingly critical to have the highest quality, most accurate data. As these smart contracts go from securing billions to trillions, their ability to pay for higher quality data and larger and larger independent computing systems like Oracle networks will also grow. So I think what's important is not only how the system works, which is basically through this fundamental principle of decentralization, but also how that scales as the value within a contract increases.
