00:00:00.240 - 00:00:05.354, Speaker A: Basic functions of hyper contractions. Welcome.
00:00:06.134 - 00:00:47.182, Speaker B: Thank you. Thank you to the organizers for allowing me to present my work here. Yeah, the title of the talk is characteristics, function of hyper contraction. So it is a joint work with my postdoc mentor, professor Bhatokrishna Dash, and my PhD supervisor, Professor Jaydeep Sarkar. Okay, so today we are going to talk about characteristics, function, characteristics, functions for of hypercontractions. So roughly speaking, the hyperconstruction operators are not exactly contractions. Definitely not, not contraction operators, but it is more than contraction operators.
00:00:47.182 - 00:01:43.584, Speaker B: That means it is this contraction as well as is satisfying some extra positivity assumption. So, and this, this, this hyperconstruction operator was first introduced by Aglar while he was studying the subnaut operators. We will define in today's talk more precisely, just as a quickly, I'm speaking and characteristics functions are kind of analytic functions, which plays a crucial role to, to talk about or maybe to understand the hyperconversion operators more in a more detailed way. You can say it is also an unitary object. Okay, let us begin with, by recalling the Hardy space, though people have decided, people have defined or talked about the hardy space. In my earlier talks also, and in today's morning talk, Kelly Beekel also talked about that. But just let me give a brief glimpses about the hard space.
00:01:43.584 - 00:02:23.296, Speaker B: So, for a separable inbut space evaluated hard space are basically a function space where the functions are analytic functions over the unities. Here I'm talking about the hard disposal over the unit dis. So this functions are analytic over the open unities D. And it has a power series expansion throughout the open unities. And along with that, its coefficients are also square summable. So now for the hard space, one more, one, one more well known notion is that invariant subspace. So just let me recall once, what is invariant subspace.
00:02:23.296 - 00:03:12.954, Speaker B: So, invariant subspace are nothing, just a closed subspace, those closed subspace where if you take an element a from m and if you plug m z, that is the hardest shift on that f, it will be again an element of m. So, so this is the invariant subspace. And there is a famous characterization for invariant subspaces inside the Hardy space that is known as burning lacks almost theorem. So there is also theory. There is a history behind that, that birding has done for Hardy space with a scalar value then, then lacks did for finite dimensional vector values then anyway. But let us see what is the burning less Hulmos type characterization here. So they have actually shows that invariants of space can be realized or can be represented in terms of an inner function.
00:03:12.954 - 00:04:04.074, Speaker B: So for every invariant subspace m, you can plug one inner function theta, and with respect to that theta, you can represent the given invasion space m. But the missing part here is that the description of that theta. So this theorem, this theorem shows us that existence of a theta. But what about the any explicit theta? So, to give an explicit description of a theta, let us once recall the Naspas model for pure contractions. So let me begin with the pure operators. So what are pure operators? So, pure operators are nothing but just tester n converges to zero in a strong operator topological. So those boundary linear operators where digital n actually converges to zero in strong operator topology.
00:04:04.074 - 00:04:54.942, Speaker B: Now, for pure contractions, NAspas model actually gives us, or actually shows us that these pure contractions can be realized as a compression of the Hardy shift over a co invariance of space q. Now, mind it that q is a co invariant subspace. So since q is a co invariant subspace, so if I consider the path of the q, it is an invariant subspace and it is an invariant substance inside the hard space. So we have the Berlin Lex Helmuth theorem, and with the Berlin Lex Helmuth theorem, actually you can represent the q path in that form. So that means you can plug, you can plug an inner function theta. So with respect to that theta, you can represent q q power in that way. But again, so the existence of theta is known.
00:04:54.942 - 00:05:48.194, Speaker B: But what about the explicitness of that theta? That is also dealt by Naspa. They have produced an explicit description of a theta, which is known as the characteristics function. So, first of all, this is an analytic function from the open unit d to operator value to dt to dt star valued function. And its description is of this. So this theta t actually satisfies this, that equation, that q power is equal to theta theta h two p. So now, with respect to that theta t, actually you can modify the Naspas model a little bit. And so, so the Nazpas model now turns to be that for a given pure contraction t, you actually, that can be realized as a compression of a Hardy shift over a converse surplus q, where q path is of this from theta h to theta star.
00:05:48.194 - 00:06:40.326, Speaker B: So actually this, in that way, you can say that if you, if you begin with an invergent subspace m, consider its path, that is the co invariance of space, and then compress that, compress the hardy shape over that co invariance of space, this is a pure contraction. And now, using the Naspas model, actually you can find out the one characteristics function theta t. And this theta t is the inner function corresponding to the starting invariance of this m. Okay, so that is about the pure contractions. Or you can say that, okay, inside the hardest base. Now what about that? Can we pose the questions, analogous questions for the Bergman space, more generally weighted Bergman space. So more precisely, in today's talk, we are going to address about these two questions.
00:06:40.326 - 00:07:33.316, Speaker B: So the first thing is that, so if I consider any invariant subspace inside the weighted biome space over the unit ball, does there exist any bargaining legs? Almost like characterization. So in terms of, or maybe you can characterize this invariant surfaces in terms of a multiplier from duria vision space to the Bergman space. So the thing is that, so the more so the main thing we are concerned here, that is there is a near birding legs thermostat characterization. Another thing is that suppose for the timing, let us assume that suppose it has. So then is there is any explicit description of that theta, of that multiplane. Okay, so one by one, we will address these two questions in today's talk. But before that, let me introduce some notions which we need to talk about these two questions.
00:07:33.316 - 00:08:17.354, Speaker B: So you need to address these questions. First thing is that row contraction? So what is row contraction? So suppose we have given an enthalpy of committing boundary layer operators. Now, corresponding to that interplay of committing boundary linear operators, consider the row operator hn two h, which is defined in the following way that the tuple h one h two h n goes to summation ti h n. Now this is the row operator. So the, so the given in tuple of committing contraction t one t two t n is a row contraction if the row operated is a contraction. Now. Now another well known map, that is the sigma t.
00:08:17.354 - 00:09:05.234, Speaker B: So that map is defined in that way that bh to boundary operators on h to boundary operator a, the map is defined in that way that it is actually a conjugation with respect to that row operator. So precisely it is defined in that way that x is goes to summation tix ti star. Now this map sigma t, you can check that this is a completely positive map. And actually using this completely positive map, we will define the hyperconstruction operators that plays a crucial role in defining the hyperconction operators. Let us see how. So for that sigma t, that completely positive map, let us consider the operator delta t k, which is one minus sigma t power k di dt. You can compute that this as the following expression.
00:09:05.234 - 00:09:39.656, Speaker B: If one likes, you can compute that. But the important part is that the definition of hyper contraction operators, what is the hyper contraction operators so corresponding to an n tuple of committing bounded linear operators t, maybe. So the t if it satisfies these two positive, that is delta t. So delta t k equals to one. That means delta t one is positive as well as delta t m is positive. So relative one will give you that nothing but the row contraction. So if delta t one is positive, that means the given n double of committing boundary operator is the row contraction.
00:09:39.656 - 00:10:26.094, Speaker B: So for hyper contraction operators, row contraction is not enough. It should satisfy one more extra positivity that is delta t m. It is, it is analogous to for if you, if you go back to the one variable, so you will see that MIP contraction operators for a, for a given, for a given operator t power mouth boundary number t, this is an MIBA contraction. If it is a contraction as well as it has a satisfied extra positive. So analogous thing is happening to the multivitable case. Also, it is a instead of contraction, it is a row contraction as well as it satisfies one extra positivity, that is delta t m. Okay, now the defect operators are nothing but the positive square root of delta t and the defect space at the range closer of that defect operator.
00:10:26.094 - 00:11:17.326, Speaker B: Now the interesting thing is that if when a mi pair contraction satisfies this to positivity, the delta t one and delta t m, these two operators are positive. So automatically in between operators are also positive. That means delta t k are positive for each k lies between one to m, that is result by molar versus that. They have also shown that if you have first hand starting and end positivity, then for all k lies between one to m, all positivities are there. Okay, that is about the MFA contraction operators. Now, as we have seen that the notion of pure in one variable, now what in multivariable, what is the notion of pure operators? So the pure remiper contractions are like that. So that sigma t power k at identity, this has to goes to zero in strong operator topology.
00:11:17.326 - 00:12:19.052, Speaker B: So that is the notion of pure mi pipe contractions. Now since we are, we are posing the questions inside the weighted Bergman space over the unit valve, let us see one glimpse about the wet environment space so wetted by many spaces are also function space where the functions are basically analytic functions over the open unit ball bn. And it also has a power series expression of this form where the coefficients are satisfying some kind of growth conditions. Another view to the another view of the weighted permanent space is that it is a reproductive and Hilbert space. So with respect to a kernel, you can visualize that because of kernel is unique for a Hilbert space. For a given kernel, you can consider construct only one Hilbert space and its kernel functions is of this form. That is one by one minus z inverter w to the power l.
00:12:19.052 - 00:12:43.084, Speaker B: If you consider H. Okay, now if l equals to one, this is give you the duriation space, which is. People used to call that this is plays the role of the hard space in the multivariable setup. Anyway, so the Duria space is, we are denoting duriavation space in that form, that h two and e. Fine. So that is about the fragment space. And we have defined the pure Miba contraction.
00:12:43.084 - 00:13:24.846, Speaker B: Now let us see that. What is the model for that model for pure EMIP contractions that is given by Muller Vasiliuscu. So what they have shown, they have shown that the pure Mi pair contractions can be realized as the compression of the Bergmanship over a co invariant subscue where q is a co inventory of the weighted Barman space. Right? Okay, so now how they are, how they are, how they have, given that they have to produce that model, they have used an operator which is defined in that way. People used to call this the dilation map for pure matter contraction. Actually it is, it is nothing, but it is an isometry. I m the operator.
00:13:24.846 - 00:13:56.494, Speaker B: You can check that. This is an isometry as well as it has an intertwining relations. That means PI m intertwines Ti star and m z. And therefore the range of PI m is a co invariant surface. And it turns out that the coinbase of space q, where we need to compress the vector biomes shape that q is nothing but the range of PI. Since PI m is isometric storage, is closer. That's a range of PI and it is a co invariant substance.
00:13:56.494 - 00:14:30.882, Speaker B: Fine, so, so now I, we have understood that, okay, pure mi pa contractions can be realized as a compression of the hard wetted by masters over a co invariant source space. Now, now the question comes to the picture is that. So here q is a co invariance of space. So therefore q parp is an invariant subspace, right? Joint invariant space here. So is there is any analogous representation or like a burning legs almost type, which I have. So now we, I'm going, now let us keep, let us give the answer of this question. The answer is that here, that is yes.
00:14:30.882 - 00:15:11.048, Speaker B: So actually, uh, there is a result by Sharkar, Professor Jadav. Sharkar. So he has shown that, okay, so any, any invariant subspace that means a closed subspace which are invented at the Berman shift vector Berman ship. So they can be represented in terms of a partial isometric multiplier from a duriavation space to the wet environment space. The difference is here is that here is a partial isometric multiplayer instead of isometric multiplayer. Okay, so since we have this kind of representations, so if we go back to that Muller Vasiliskus model. So there, this q co invariant surface.
00:15:11.048 - 00:16:25.804, Speaker B: Now this q per has a representation of Berlin like thalamus type. Therefore, the modified version will be that Ti can be realized as a compression of m zi over that PI h to n star part. But that, but the thing is that again, the explicitness is missing since there is any explicit description of that field. So that is the, in today's rest of the talk, I am going to give you the recipe how to construct characteristics function or mimic how to construct a phi, which will satisfy this relation for a given MiBA contractions. Let us see the residue first. So for that, for a given hyper contraction, MIP contraction, let us consider the operator CFd, which is an l two valued operator, okay? And it is defined in that way h goes to, uh, so some coefficient DmT star t star power mh. So the, the interesting fact to note is that if I, if I consider, if you consider the twister and CMT, that column operator, that is an isometric, and since this is an isometry, you can extend it to an unitary by adding an Hilbert space.
00:16:25.804 - 00:17:09.320, Speaker B: And we will formalize this as a definition. So, so the thing is that, so for a MFA contraction t a given characteristic a given triple e b d, which is, which is basically consisting of an Hilbert space and an operator b and d from the respective spaces. Now this triple is called a characteristic triple. If, if the corresponding block matrix, that is t star Cmt b which is from h direction e to h in direction l two value. This is the unitary. So therefore t star Cmt is, is already, this is an isometry. Now by, by adding an ill versus e, you can extend it to an unitary and this two cross two matrix.
00:17:09.320 - 00:18:13.936, Speaker B: When this, this two cross two matrix is the unitary corresponding triple e b t. Then this triple is called as characteristic triple. Now, now, corresponding to that characteristic triple, actually you can, you can construct, you can construct a function that is of this form phi so that that operator phi is an, is an operatable analytic function on the, on the open unit ball bn. Okay, so that maybe looks like a clumsy things, but, but that is, that is, there is a way to understand that our. The construction is not that many that much complex due to the lack of time. I am not going to able to express all details, but okay, if I consider this p. Actually this fee will satisfy the following relation, that is I minus one by one minus z inner power w to the power m minus phi z phi w star by one minus z inner w is of this form DMT star.
00:18:13.936 - 00:18:45.424, Speaker B: So the right hand side, if you, if you. If you see properly that in Muller Vasiliskus model we have talked about an operator PI m. So. So yeah, that operator PI m. So this operator. Now if I. If I consider that PI M PI M star on kernel spaces, actually with a little bit of computation you can see that these relations is actually telling you that one minus mp mp star is equals to PI m PI M star.
00:18:45.424 - 00:19:21.750, Speaker B: So since PI M PI M star is a positive operator. So that shows that I I minus mp mp star is a positive operator. So that in other words, this is saying that phi is a multiplier, contractive multiplier from a derivation space to weighted parameter space. Yeah. And it will form a partial estimated that also one can check. So with these things we can modify molar vasculosis model in a form that. So given a purim upper contraction.
00:19:21.750 - 00:20:14.606, Speaker B: So suppose and corresponding to a characteristic triple e bd. Actually you can, you can, you can, you can see that q power is equals to phi h two h two and e. So that means this phi will satisfy this relations. So in other words, for a given mi pac contraction, we are able to give an explicit description of a phi in Muller Vasiliski's model. Okay, so yeah. Now let us, let us see some applications or some importance of the characteristics functions for purim at a contraction, though there are many. Here I am going to tell you a few important applications or maybe importance of this.
00:20:14.606 - 00:20:52.724, Speaker B: First thing is that it is an unitary invariant objective. That means for each m hyperc attraction there is a unique characteristics functions. Or in other words, with the characteristics function you can uniquely identify an MIPR contraction. Let us see this. So, first thing is that any two row contraction t and r. So they used to say unitary equivalent if there is this unit in u such that tis and ris are related by that unit in u. Now this is the unity invariant.
00:20:52.724 - 00:21:47.584, Speaker B: Now let me introduce one more notion, that is the notion of coincide. So suppose you have t and r to pure mip contractions on h and h tilde and phi t and phi r are two characteristics functions of t and r corresponding to two characteristic table e one b one b one and e two b two b two. Now we will say that phi t and phi r, they coincide with each other. If you have two unitaries, one from e one to e two, another from DmT star, which I have defined as the defect space of t to defect space of r. And with respect to these two unitaries, phi t and fear is related in that way. That means for each jet, for each jet belongs to the unit ball. So phi t z and phi t are, they are inter, in that way that with respect to these two unitaries.
00:21:47.584 - 00:22:47.256, Speaker B: So this is the notion of coincidence. So with respect to that notion of coincidence, we can prove that one, that any two pure mi pair contractions, they are actually unitarily equivalent if and only if their characteristics functions coincide. So in a sense that if you give me a pure mib contraction, that is a, there is a unique characteristic function in a sense of coincidence. Fine. So that helps us to uniquely, to uniquely identify pure mapper condition. That means suppose you have given me a partial isometric multiplier from two derivations to weighted Barman space. If this, if this given partial asymmetric multiplier, if it, if it coincides with some characteristics function, then we can say that actually you can cook up an miper contraction with respect to that fee by compressing the weighted biometric over the co invariant source space.
00:22:47.256 - 00:23:20.034, Speaker B: That means theta, theta is power and corresponding that t. Yeah, you will get the characteristics function. Anyway, if I can write that, that will be better. But anyway, so let us see one more, one more good applications of that. That is the existence of invariants of specimen. There is actually in one variable. NASA also have shown that, that if the cat, if their characteristics function, theta t, if it factors, then this actually tells you that the existence of an invariant surface.
00:23:20.034 - 00:24:42.614, Speaker B: Here also we can, we can talk, we can say the same thing that, okay, corresponding to an pure emaca contraction if is a characteristic function corresponding to a triple. Now, the existence of a joint invariant surface is, you can say in terms of a factorization of the given characteristics function five t, so that the and, and the existence of the non trivial invariant southpace will be guaranteed if range of one of the factor feed one of the vector feed two, whose range is neither equal to the range of the characteristics function m, and even not it is the whole space. So that's, that's, that tells you that if t is a joint invariant source space, so t, if t has a joint invariant source space, then the given characteristics function phi t factors in terms of a partial isometric multiplier. And in terms of a contractive multiplier, phi two and phi one says that phi t is this form. And there phi two, the range of phi two. The existence of the non trivial joint inventory is guaranteed if and only if. Actually, the, the range of mv two should not equal to the range of MVT, as well as range of v two should not be the whole space.
00:24:42.614 - 00:25:29.648, Speaker B: Okay, that's it. So there are the representations of the. That is the, the title, the talk which we have, the thing we have, we have discussed is actually, the materials is from this paper, which is available in the archive. This is the paper where Aguilar first introduced that hyper contraction operators. And for pure MIP contraction, Muller Vasilisku have given the model for pure MIP contractions that is available here in the paper. Muller Basil Standard model for some committing multi operators. And lastly, this is the result about the, about the characterization of inventory in the weighted biometrics.
00:25:29.648 - 00:25:46.564, Speaker B: Actually, actually, he has dealt with, he has given the existence of inbane systems in a more general setup. But here we, we have, we have required the result only for the weighted partner space. Anyway, so thanks. Thank you for your attention.
00:25:47.424 - 00:26:16.204, Speaker A: Thank you very much. Let's thank the speaker. Questions, comments, suggestions? Well, if there are no questions, let's thank Madrid again. And this concludes our, today's session.
