00:00:00.330 - 00:00:55.962, Speaker A: Hi, my name is damian and I'm member of the core development team, which maintains and develops the Nethermind Ethereum client as core devs. Our goal is to support the health of the Ethereum the best way that we know, by bringing more stability and performance improvements to our client. We collaborate closely with Ethereum foundation and Ethereum development community to discuss, specify and implement features that affect the network. Our interns can contribute to Ethereum improvement proposals such as EPM object format, account abstraction or vertical trees, just to name a few. And many used to work on historic hard forks like the merge or Shanghai. When working with the core team, you'll have the chance to gain hands on experience and explore the inner workings of Ethereum blockchain and gain a variety of skills in the middle. This includes mastering the latest version of net, an open source development platform, and RogsDB, a key value store that we use for persistence.
00:00:55.962 - 00:01:55.278, Speaker A: You'll also gain experience with distributed networks, specifically peer to peer networks, which are key to understanding blockchain technology. It's a real opportunity to contribute to key areas of Ethereum such as EVM, transaction pool, smart contract execution, state database, or JSON RPC. You can master writing modern, highly efficient and multi credit code using the latest version of net. Gaining this handson experience in working with complex data structures and asynchronous code will be useful in tackling even the most complicated software engineering tasks in the future, whether they are within or outside blockchain space. This also could be a great starting point for your future career in Ethereum and in wider blockchain scene. If you don't think you have enough skills in C sharp or net, don't worry. Our team can bring you up to speed using references to the languages that you may be already familiar with, like C or Java, for example.
00:01:55.278 - 00:02:20.180, Speaker A: If you're a bit more advanced already, you can jump right in and start contributing to the network right now, or use Nethermind's plugin functionality to add exciting new feature. Others no matter what your next goal is, our team of experienced members is there to guide you. We want to encourage creativity and innovation, and we are very much excited to help bring your ideas into life. That's why don't hesitate, go ahead and apply.
