00:00:00.200 - 00:00:39.902, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delhi Way refuel, where we cap the latest news in the theorem ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Designer, and today it's the 15 February 2024. All right, everyone, let's get into it. So, kicking off today, we have a bit of, I guess, of a reminder about why we're here in crypto today and what the power of this technology is. So you can see here that the campaign that was being run on the GoFundMe platform for Alexei Pertsev here and Roman storm of Tornado Cash, the Tornado cash Developers legal Fund was actually shut down by the GoFundMe platform, and they basically didn't. They notified the campaign organizers that the fundraising for roman storm's legal defense was canceled.
00:00:39.902 - 00:01:20.252, Speaker A: They cite term 22 of their terms of service, which can be interpreted to mean they simply didn't like the fundraiser. And term 22 says that they can. They being GoFundMe, can terminate a fundraising campaign for any other activity that GoFundMe may deem in its sole discretion to be unacceptable or objectionable, restrict or inhibit any other person from using or enjoying the services, or expose GoFundMe, its employees or users to any harm or liability of any type. Obviously, very vague, very broad kind of rule there. But I think that we all kind of can read between the lines here and know exactly why they, they got rid of this. And it's basically because of the fact that tornado cash is on the OFAC list. Right? He's on the OFAC list.
00:01:20.252 - 00:01:45.040, Speaker A: It's on the sanctions list. So for GoFundMe, their lawyers would have told them, hey, you need to remove this. Like, this is not something that you can have on your platform because it does open you up to liability. So I'm not going to say that, like, I like that this happened, but I can understand it if we're looking at it from their perspective as to why this happened. But then I quote Twitter this and basically said that this is why we need decentralized money. I mean, decentralized money comes at you fast. You can't stop crypto donations.
00:01:45.040 - 00:02:17.982, Speaker A: Like, anyone can spin up an ethereum wallet and say, hey, send me ETH. Right? Right. Send me, you know, a stable coin. Stable coins carry more risk because obviously tether or circle can freeze the stable coin. But if you're just kind of raising an ETH for whatever cause that you're trying to raise for, no one can stop you from accepting ETH into your own non custodial ethereum wallet. Like, and that just goes back to, I guess originally why bitcoin was created as peer to peer money. And the whole kind of point of this ecosystem is non custodial money, a non custodial financial system that is decentralized, censorship resistant, and not, and basically not controlled by anyone.
00:02:17.982 - 00:03:17.702, Speaker A: And the fun thing is, is that you could even donate to someone who spun up an Ethereum address for tornado cash for the tone of cash developers for their legal fund through tornado cash. Doing so, obviously as a us citizen or person is illegal right now, as per the OFAC sanctions. But you know, it's a gray area for other places around the world, but you could still do it and no one could stop you from doing it. You'd have delayed inclusion because obviously some portion of the network is censoring to node or cash related transactions, but I would still get included. So we really kind of get reminded when things like this happen of the actual power of this ecosystem and the actual power of the technology that we've built here. It's not just for Ponzi gambling and speculating and meme coins and all that sorts of stuff, right? That's part of it for sure. I mean, obviously it's a big part of it, but the real value prop is that decentralized money use case, that decentralized kind of censorship resistant use case that we've all kind of known to, I guess, like come and known to love over the years about this ecosystem and about Ethereum in particular, because Ethereum is so decentralized, is so censorship resistant here.
00:03:17.702 - 00:03:44.518, Speaker A: Now, in saying all of that, if you do want to still donate to these causes, you can there. I think that. What was it? Juice box money, actually. Yeah, replied to me. So if you go to juice box money, which is a basically web3 version of GoFundMe, and you kind of go here, you can explore the projects that are on here, and one of them is free, Alexi and Roman. And you can actually donate. Yeah, you connect your wallet, of course, and then you can donate to this, the legal support fund.
00:03:44.518 - 00:04:10.380, Speaker A: And the total raise is over 300 ETH so far, from 685 different payments. And this is unstoppable. No one can stop this. The juice box platform, I believe, is a decentralized platform. I don't think, I mean, I haven't looked into it myself, but from what I've seen, I don't think the juice box team can actually stop this from happening and pause any kind of contracts. I think the front end could probably delist this if they wanted to, but I don't think they could actually stop the money from flowing. Right.
00:04:10.380 - 00:04:45.136, Speaker A: This is just like, obviously juice box money is kind of a front end here. So they probably could, because it's a centralized front end from what I can see, they probably could delist the project, but that still wouldn't stop the money from flowing because the money obviously is flowing on chain, which is the whole point here. So, yeah, I mean, this acts as a reminder that if you do want to donate to this legal defense fund for Alexi Perciv and Roman Stone, storm the tone of cash developers, you can do that via Juicebox money here. I mean, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you guys to check out, of course. But unfortunately, and I guess pretty predictably, GoFundMe has kind of de platformed. De platform this fund race. Yeah.
00:04:45.136 - 00:05:15.886, Speaker A: And as I said, guys, as shitty as it is, like, I totally understand why they did it. Like, they don't say it. And I'm reading between the lines here and I'm speculating on this, of course. But if you're a company and there is a, I guess, like individuals or kind of a project raising on your platform that is on the OFAC list, the US oFAC list, then they're on the sanctions list, I should say then, yeah, definitely you're not going to want to take that legal liability. Like, it's just, it's just logical. And, and the lawyers were probably kind of telling them that as well. So I understand that.
00:05:15.886 - 00:06:02.460, Speaker A: Even though I think it is shitty, uh, and I wouldn't say I even disagree with it because I don't know what I do in that position. You know, if I'm opening myself up to massive legal liabilities as a, I don't know, a founder or a CEO of the company, then I have to think about not just myself, but also the company. Right? Because GoFundMe has employees. I have to think about the, the bad, the bad pr, the legal repercussions. Because you, you could easily imagine the media spinning this as GoFundMe allowing a fundraise for financial terrorists to exist on their platform. Because we've seen not just the media but politicians spin this. You know, Elizabeth Warren literally sits in Congress and spins this and says these things, saying that, oh, all of the, you know, all of the money or most of the money that Hamas got was from crypto donations, which we know was completely wrong, was literally completely false, but she still said it.
00:06:02.460 - 00:06:29.052, Speaker A: So you can see how quickly this gets spun into like, a really, really bad pr storm and really bad for the company actually hosting this. So, as I said, I understand it from GoFundme's perspective, but I totally disagree with that, obviously. And I totally think that you know, that. Well, I don't think I'm glad that we have these existing solutions with crypto. Now that we can get around this, we can just go around it. There's no need to kind of fight it. You know, we don't even have to say and to go find me.
00:06:29.052 - 00:06:46.830, Speaker A: Hey, you know, what are you doing? Give us a real reason. We don't even have to take him to court. Like, someone could take him to court and force them to, to give a reason on this. Right. If they were really kind of not forthcoming. But why would we do that? We can just say, okay, screw you guys, we're going to just use crypto donations, and that's what's kind of been happening here. So, yeah, as I said, I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out.
00:06:46.830 - 00:07:34.350, Speaker A: But obviously a good reminder of the fact that what we're building here is actually serious, is actually decentralized, and does actually have real world implications beyond the speculation and gambling and meme coin ness and stuff like that, which obviously is very important from a number of different kind of, like, lenses, but not the be all and end all of this ecosystem. All right, speaking of speculation, I think this is, that was a little funny kind of segue into what I want to talk about next. I posted this cast on, on Farcaster today, where I said a new low on the total ETH supply since the merge. So obviously ETH has been deflationary since the merge, as you can see in this chart. And I've talked about it a bunch of times before. I've talked about the ultrasound money website a bunch of times before. But the reason I'm highlighting it today is because I really want to have some fun here with speculating a little bit.
00:07:34.350 - 00:07:52.382, Speaker A: I know I just said that this ecosystem isn't just about speculating. It isn't, but I still want to have fun speculating. You know, we all enjoy a bit of speculation. So the fun I want to have is I really want to kind of speculate on where this kind of number is going to go. So right now, the numbers at 0.2, negative 0.2% issuance since the merge.
00:07:52.382 - 00:08:17.130, Speaker A: Could we see this go to, like, negative one, you know, negative two, negative three through the bull market, because obviously, as the bull market heat really heats up, gas fees are going to go up. Right. We all know that we all understand that. Um, and last time we had the bull market was in 2021, and AIP 1559 was not around back then. Guys. AIP 1559 was not around for the, for the meat of the bull market. It was around an August, uh, of that year.
00:08:17.130 - 00:08:50.842, Speaker A: Right? August 2021. Um, but for the meat of the bull market from, like, I guess you could say mid 2020 to May 2021, or it did not exist. And there was a lot of gas fees back then because the gas fees were really high. There's a lot of fee revenue, and we did not have ERP 1559. So we didn't burn ETH back then. But then, of course, we had the kind of like second, I guess you'd call it second pump or second bull market towards the end of 2021 with the NFT mania. And that did burn a lot of ETH, but then that quickly died off because we went into a bear market in the next year, right, in 2022, where things just exploded and so on and so forth.
00:08:50.842 - 00:09:51.530, Speaker A: So now heading into a fresh bull market where AIP 1559 has been live for a while, we're already at negative .2% issuance, right? What's it gonna look like? Like, are we going negative one? Are we going negative two? I think we are. Like, I think we're going to burn a lot of ETH this bull market, guys, because fees are going to skyrocket. Like, I know people's like this meme and say, well, no one's going to do anything on ETH l one anymore because they can do things on l two s and they can do things on other l ones. Like, sure, yes, but the amount of demand that's coming in and the amount of new money that's coming in because of, you know, the crypto bull market that we're about to have, once things reach all time highs, like, that's going to exceed the available block space, so to speak. And that's, and that's going to push everything so high, I think, for a short, maybe a relatively short period of time, maybe like three to six months or something like that, but it's still going to do that, and then we're going to see just massive amounts of ETH being burned. So I hope I can revisit this maybe in, like a year's time or year and a half or maybe even two years time and see where we're at, because I do think that we could get down to the negative one two kind of percent here.
00:09:51.530 - 00:10:19.862, Speaker A: Just given, just based on the fact that I think that the gas fees are going to be quite high. Now, of course people are going to say, well, you know, the gas fees are going to be high. That means people aren't going to use Ethereum because they're going to get priced out. And that's true. But then we have the L2s live this time because you remember that we actually didn't have any L2s live back in the last bull market and not in any real capacity either. And I mean, like the generalized l two s, like base definitely wasn't live. Optimism and arbitrum had just gone live, I believe, if I'm remembering correctly.
00:10:19.862 - 00:10:43.552, Speaker A: Or maybe they went live in the bear market. I'm losing track of time at this point. But the point is, is that during that bull market, none of this stuff was really alive. Now it is. Right? And the arbitram one ecosystem, the op main net ecosystem base, bunch of others out there like ZK sync and stuff like that, they're very, very active right now and they're like very heavy on liquidity. They have a lot of integrations with centralized exchanges. Obviously, Coinbase is going to be pushing a lot of people onto base.
00:10:43.552 - 00:11:17.090, Speaker A: We have, we have non financial applications as well, like far cast so that people can onboard onto and just all of this that we just didn't have last bull market. So when you look at it from that perspective, you thinking from that perspective, I really do think we're going to be seeing some massive amounts of ETH being burned going forward. But yeah, I mean, I guess I'll keep covering that as time goes on, but I just wanted to do a little bit of speculation there for today. All right, moving on. So we've had about 24, 48 hours, not, not 48 hours yet. Probably like 24, 32 hours or something like that to digest the stock airdrop. Right.
00:11:17.090 - 00:11:38.804, Speaker A: And obviously it was a mess. It was full of drama. We're probably going to stop hearing about that drama in the next day or so because the crypto ecosystem moves on from drama very, very quickly. But I wanted to talk a little bit about it, and this is going to be a, probably a long discussion, probably. I'm going to spend the next ten minutes talking about this because I have a lot of thoughts on this. And it doesn't just, it doesn't have just to do with stocknet or the stock token. It has to do with tokens generally.
00:11:38.804 - 00:12:06.286, Speaker A: But first I want to read this cast that I put out where I said I know the stock Airdrop has its issues, but I do hope that this has finally started the trend of projects airdropping to ETH stakers in, in particular solo slash homestakers. There are a few big airdrops coming, such as Eigen layer, ethify, puffer and swell that will airdrop to eat stakers. Hopefully many more join in. So I think that's going to happen. I do think this is going to be setting a trend here. I do think we're going to get better lists to airdrop to as well. That's been a major issue.
00:12:06.286 - 00:12:49.052, Speaker A: I know multiple people that are working on better lists already and improving upon the list that we have, which is great because people, I think, got pissed off that the rated or network list wasn't the greatest to go off and that a lot of kind of like, I guess solo stakers and home stakers got mislabeled and weren't eligible for this stuff. So that's being worked on. And hopefully the projects use those lists instead of the inferior ones. But what I really wanted to talk about here is airdrops and tokens generally. So as you guys have seen, there's been a lot of drama around this airdrop, a lot of hate around this airdrop. A lot of people feeling slighted and frankly, a lot of entitlement around this airdrop. Now, I understand that the, when it comes to Stocknet, generally, the stark token supply is, sorry, token distribution is pretty bad.
00:12:49.052 - 00:13:12.060, Speaker A: And I think I called this out a long time ago when they first announced the stark distribution, I think I actually called this out. I think it might have been, might have been like one to two years ago or something like that. You can probably go back and find that episode. Sturs might be able to find that. He's really good at finding old episodes. So sturs, if you're watching or listening, if you can find me, the episode where I called out the distribution of Stark as being horrible, please find it because I want to collect those receipts. But anyway, it's, it's pretty bad.
00:13:12.060 - 00:13:35.994, Speaker A: It's very weighted towards insiders. It's very weighted towards team. It's not great. Right? And also at the same time, it came to light recently that the vesting for the investors started at the time the token was actually generated. So the TGE event back like two years ago, which means that in April, I think most if not all of the investor tokens are unlocking, which is just ridiculous. Right. That's very egregious.
00:13:35.994 - 00:14:07.252, Speaker A: That is really, really bad. So obviously stocknet and the teams and that have copped a lot of flack for that. Right. Um, which I guess, honestly, I think is rightful to cop flack for that, because I do think the investor stuff is incredibly egregious. Um, but on the other hand, you also have, like, all of these people being, like, really entitled about it, right? Where they basically say, oh, I didn't get enough free money, or, I did so much on stark net, and you didn't give me an, uh. You didn't give me any money. It's like, okay, well, so you're basically admitting that the only reason why you were doing anything on Stark net was because you were airdrop farming to begin with, and you're not entitled to anything, right.
00:14:07.252 - 00:14:35.060, Speaker A: You're not entitled to airdrops. They're just kind of bonuses that you get. So the entitlement has always annoyed me about these things. But the problem with this as well is that because you have that entitlement, because you have a lot of people kind of now being upset about it, it feeds on the toxicity that you see on places like crypto, Twitter, and then you have competitors joining in. You have, like, people who already hate ethereum joining in and don't, like stocknet joining in. And just, like, continuing this. This toxicity circle, which you've seen play out over the last 24 hours, right? It's just been a shit show.
00:14:35.060 - 00:14:54.384, Speaker A: It's been so bad. And I think I've called this out before plenty of times on the refuel where I've said that this. There's nothing that. There's not really anything good that can come from. From these sorts of things. And also, there's been comments from the team themselves where, honestly, some certain team members shouldn't have said anything, if I'm being honest, because they've just made things worse. Because you can't fight a mob.
00:14:54.384 - 00:15:11.014, Speaker A: Like, fighting a mob is. Is useless. It's pointless because you're never going to win with a mob. Let things die down. You know, stick with your core community, kind of like, keep building, you know, from, I guess, like, a development point of view, and keep building what you've been building. But getting involved in, like, a mob is never. Is never a good idea.
00:15:11.014 - 00:15:25.534, Speaker A: And I've. I've actually advised many projects that I've talked to, either as an official or non official advisor to. Never, ever get involved with the mob because you're never gonna win. Doesn't matter how right you are. Doesn't matter how wrong they are. The mob rules. Mob mentality is really dangerous.
00:15:25.534 - 00:16:04.136, Speaker A: Guys like, this is not a crypto specific thing, like, a mob mentality, especially, like, in real life in, in crowds is really dangerous and not something you wanna be fighting because you're, you know, a human. There's a famous quote that says, like, a human is intelligent, but, like, a mob is stupid. And it's because I think we've just, like, genetically, I guess, like, predisposed to this, that as part of a mob, we, we tend to kind of, like, get caught up in the mob mentality, and we tend to, like, I guess, like revert to. To being apes and monkeys, basically. Right? So I think that's the number one rule I've always gone with is don't try to fight the mob. And that's the, that's what I advise projects to do. But unfortunately, sometimes people do this, obviously, because they feel, like, personally attacked as well.
00:16:04.136 - 00:16:34.202, Speaker A: I mean, I've read a lot of the comments that were lobbied or lobbed at the Stockinette developers, the most visible ones, and the stocknet team members and stockware team members. It's really bad. A lot of toxicity, a lot of shitty things said to them, and a lot of entitlement. As I said, people, like, just are so entitled when it comes to airdrops. It's insane to me. I just don't, I just, I mean, I understand it because you're, you know, you're hoping you get some kind of, like, free money, and you're hoping you get money because you want to, you know, better your life with that money. I mean, I understand it, but at the same time, it's like, no one promised you free money.
00:16:34.202 - 00:17:40.012, Speaker A: You should be using these products because you want to use them, not just because you're airdrop farming them. And if you're trying to airdrop farm them and you don't get as much as you think you're entitled to, then that's on you. Like, no, no one promised you anything here, right? So that side of things gets on my nerves a lot. But in saying all of that, when it comes to, and that's, that's, I guess that most of that is stock net specific. But if we kind of look at what it looks like from just like a token specific point of view or an airdrop specific point of view, I think the best airdrops are the ones that I wouldn't say cater to the mob, but, like, satiate the mob. And the way you do this is, I think, unfortunately, you need to airdrop to some of the, I guess you could say the farmers or cybers out there. And the reason I say this, this might be like, an unpopular opinion, but the reason I say this is because if there are industrial farming operations going on that have a lot of bots, what do you think they're going to use those bots for? If they feel slighted, if they don't get what they are farming, they're going to use those bots to fud your project, right? They're going to use those bots to shit on your project to spread all this toxicity.
00:17:40.012 - 00:18:27.698, Speaker A: And they're going to do that on places like Twitter where I'm sure if you go to the replies that you've seen on a lot of these projects, you will see just these random accounts. No one's following them, that, you know, they look like bots, and they're all saying things like, scam, scam, project, where's my airdrop? Screw you guys, I'm going elsewhere. And they have all these likes. They have like hundreds of likes on these replies. That, to me is very obviously bots. Now, I would bet there's a very strong correlation of an event diagram is probably a circle here of people who are running those bots and people who are airdrop farming with bots. So it might just be a necessary evil that you should air draw as you should airdrop to the airdrop farmers in order to make sure they don't do this other thing, which is basically fudge your project, make it out as if everyone hates your project and potentially do damage to your project.
00:18:27.698 - 00:19:02.194, Speaker A: So there is that kind of, that kind of like cost benefit analysis, if you will, on this. And I think that that's something that has really only come to light over the last few weeks for projects is that unfortunately, the bots are just like so rampant that you kind of, like, have to give in to the bots. You have to give in to the farmers to an extent in order to prevent them from basically turning on you and then using their bot army to fight your project, which is what happened with starknet, obviously. At least that's obvious to me. I mean, reading through the replies, I actually went and looked at the likes on a lot of the tweets and I manually went through them. They're all accounts that are literally bots. Like, I can tell that they're bots.
00:19:02.194 - 00:19:33.394, Speaker A: I could do. They don't, they don't hide it very well. But because Twitter is just horrible at getting rid of bots, they're there and they're very active, right? And they're there for a long period of time. So really, I guess, like the new meta of airdrops now is that you probably have to airdrop to farmers and cyberless. And maybe this sounds like something stupid to say, maybe this is sacrilege to say, but it depends on your goals. Like, do you want to avoid the mob? You know, do you want to avoid the mob coming after you to begin with? Do you want to avoid having that permanent stain on your project? Because there are other projects that have this stain on them. Like, I remember a famous example, Paris swap.
00:19:33.394 - 00:19:52.856, Speaker A: They did a really bad airdrop. Honestly, like, the air drop that they did was pretty shit overall, this didn't reward the right people. I think it was very, very, very low. I know, obviously, as I said, there's a lot of entitlement here. But, like, from their perspective, from the people that didn't get the airdrop or got a low airdrop, they felt slighted. They're like, you know, this is really crap. And then it's a stain on the project.
00:19:52.856 - 00:20:20.072, Speaker A: Cause now everyone's just like, oh, what a shit airdrop. Right? Like, and now everyone, whenever everyone brings up paraswap, that's the first thing people think of, which is sad, because, like, I don't think there's anything wrong with parasop, the product, or the team or anything like that. But it does lead to these negative outcomes. So it might become a thing where the projects now just. Just airdrop to the airdrop farmers, and that's it. Like, and you know, those industrial farmers, and that's it. And just to keep them happy, just to keep them satiated, because trying to fight them is a losing battle.
00:20:20.072 - 00:20:51.144, Speaker A: Because they control the bots, right? They can control sentiment through bots because people are so easily fooled, or people just don't care enough, or people already have, like, a bias and they just want to join in on the mob, as I said, mob mentality. So that's how I'm kind of looking at airdrops these days. And then when it comes to tokens generally, I mean, I think that you won't really see much token innovation due to regulations still not catching up. I think once regulations catch up, you'll probably see better innovation when it comes to tokens. But, I mean, most of these tokens are still useless guys. Like, they just governance tokens. They do nothing.
00:20:51.144 - 00:21:45.094, Speaker A: And the reason why they just governance tokens is because of the regulatory view on things. So I think until that changes, these tokens are just going to continue to be like this, unfortunately. And I think that people lose sight of the fact that, yeah, maybe they're going to be an okay investment in a bull market because everything's going up. But is it something that you really want to hold for the long period of time? Is it something you really want to hold into a bear market, especially when there's literally no value accrual to it at all besides governance? Those are the questions that are going to be popping up, I think, and those are the things that will be answered over the next couple of years. But yeah, just my general thoughts on air drops and tokens and how I think that the meta has really become that you fight, you fight the bots, you fight the mob, you're gonna probably lose, and you're gonna lose in a big way, and you're gonna lose the kind of social that the good social will that you had because of it. And whether that's right or wrong is completely irrelevant. I think what's relevant is basically what your goals are as a project with an airdrop, and what your goals are as a project long term as well.
00:21:45.094 - 00:22:25.482, Speaker A: But this is not to say that I'm bearish on, on stock net or anything like that, or I think this has damaged them long term, but I think it is definitely unfortunately, a stain on them for now, for the foreseeable future, until people will forget eventually. But yeah, it's just unfortunate that it happened this way. But to me, I don't really have too much of a problem with the airdrop. I think the airdrop was, was fine. I think that they screwed up, obviously, who they airdropped to on the solo staker side of things, which I believe they're going to fix. But the most egregious thing is the investor unlocks in April, like, and the fact that the, the vesting started before the token was even live, that is as far as I know, unprecedented for a legitimate project. I probably some scammy projects have done that before, but for a legitimate project, I don't think that's happened before.
00:22:25.482 - 00:23:01.796, Speaker A: And I hope that doesn't become a trend because as I said, it's egregious, it's really bad. It basically means the insiders can dump at the first sign of price discovery, which is like, you know, if stocknet opens at like a 10 billion or $20 billion fully diluted valuation, and these investors get their tokens pretty much straight away, that means they're up like 1000 x in some cases. Of course they're going to sell, right? So that to me is the most egregious part of it. Not the other stuff, but the other stuff obviously is also a problem. But anyway, I think I've come up on time here talking about that. There a bunch of other stuff to get through, but that's my general thoughts on all of that. I just a quick shout out here.
00:23:01.796 - 00:23:28.082, Speaker A: I was interviewed for an article that was published on forbes.com here. Ponzi Patty interviewed me here and I was talking all about the Ethereum and ETH bull case. Now, probably none of this is going to be news for any of you guys because it's pretty much everything I say on the refuel. But the reason I like that this is up there on Forbes is because it's going to be seen by a different audience. Like, you know, you guys, um, basically, uh, I'm preaching to the choir right when I'm, when I'm talking to you guys. You guys know all of this already.
00:23:28.082 - 00:23:54.594, Speaker A: You know, the bull case for Ethan Ethereum and what my thoughts are. And then you're going to hear more about that on Saturday with the episode with Eric, of course, but still give it a read. I'll link in the YouTube description below, of course, for you to do. So. Uh, but generally I thought it was a great piece. I thought it just covered basically why I'm bullish on Ethan Ethereum and all the things that go into it, such as restaking L2s, network upgrades like Denkun and stuff like that, and how that all plays into it. And I think it comes across pretty, you know, pretty, pretty well for the average kind of person.
00:23:54.594 - 00:24:12.394, Speaker A: The average kind of like Normie, I guess you could call them, the ones that aren't really into crypto too much. But yeah, just go give it a read. I just wanted to give it a shout out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so swell withdrawals are coming this month. So sweeth, I should say. Withdrawals sweat withdrawals are coming this month.
00:24:12.394 - 00:25:00.112, Speaker A: The barracuda upgrade will enable Sw ETH to be redeemed at the underlying rate through the primary market, streamlining the process of swapping out of SW ETH and adding more reassurances for stakers. Now, you can read more details about this in this post from all the way back in August, actually. So this has been a long time coming, but finally it's, it's here for you to be able to withdraw if, if that's what you want to do. And I like that these, that the withdrawals are enabled now because we'll soon be enabled because obviously it leads to more efficient markets, it leads to less risk for people staking with, with something like swelling and it just, it completes the product, so to speak. Right. It adds another kind of, adds another, another arm to the product here. So, yeah, I just wanted to put that on your radar in case you were staking with swell and you wanted to maybe withdraw or maybe you just wanted to wait until withdrawals were there in order to get confidence in order to stake with swell.
00:25:00.112 - 00:25:32.252, Speaker A: So, yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, so Samsung has announced a big initiative today on Twitter called the Security alliance, or SIL, uh, sealed.org. You can see here, for short, if you go to, I think, like, securityalliance.org is the website, you can see what this is all about. So essentially the TRDR is that this is a way for people to basically report kind of security issues. So you can see here they have a telegram group called Seal 911.
00:25:32.252 - 00:26:13.786, Speaker A: And Samsung describes it as Seal 911 is our response to the question, I just got hacked. Who can I go to for help? Previously, if you didn't have a trusted security researcher on speed dial, you, you were out of luck. Now, the entire Seal 911 team is simply a telegram message away, which is a really cool service, honestly. I mean, if you get hacked or if a project attacked, they can immediately get in contact with some very experienced and very trusted security professionals to, to help kind of, um, with that hack or to help kind of white hat potentially on that hack there. Uh, so this is a really cool initiative, and the fact that it's being headed up by Samsung, one of the best security researchers in the crypto ecosystem, is just a huge vote of confidence, of course. But it's not just him. He thanks a lot of people in this Twitter thread, which you can check out.
00:26:13.786 - 00:26:32.570, Speaker A: I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But you can go join that telegram group. So maybe you'll need it one day, right? Maybe you will need it. Maybe you get hacked or something like that. So you can join the Telegram group and also go check out securityalliance.org to see who they're partnered with. I mean, they're partnered with and with people like the, like the Ethereum Foundation, a 16 Z crypto, Vitalik Buterin.
00:26:32.570 - 00:26:43.968, Speaker A: It's not just partners, by the way. It's also donors. So people who have donated money to this initiative. And there's so many more. I mean, like, you can kind of look at all the details on the website. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. But great that this is out there.
00:26:43.968 - 00:27:20.304, Speaker A: Great that this is something that is live and some people can use, because, as I said, it has been a problem in the past. It has been something that hasn't really existed in the past, but now it does, and I'm glad that it does. All right, so last project update here today is a big announcement out of Cowdao, or I guess like the team behind cowswap. So they say here in the tweet, the dirty secret of amms is that many of their pools are leaking. In fact, liquidity providers lose five to 7% of their profits to MeV every year, making most liquidity pools unprofitable. That's why Caldao is building the first mev capturing amm. We call it Cal Amm.
00:27:20.304 - 00:28:25.564, Speaker A: So, yeah, Cal Swap, or Caldao, has launched a new amm called Cal Amm that allows liquidity providers to capture Mev, which, as I say, is a huge issue as a liquidity provider within Defi, especially for liquidity providers on something like uniswap, obviously the most popular one, they leak a lot of value to Mev here. And then they say here, the type of MEV that they're protecting against is LVR. It's a type of MEV defined as the losses LP's incur due to arbitrage. Bots constantly rebalancing liquidity pools. So this is something that happens all the time and is very constant and is the, like a large portion of the gas fees paid on ethereum, actually, because anytime the price of, like, ETH moves a few dollars or something like that, all these liquidity pools need to be arbitraged against that right against each other. And that causes a lot of leakage to MEV because there's MEV opportunities to extract that from here. But the way cal amm, I guess, tackles this is it uses something called a function maximizing amm, or fm amm, which is a pretty cool name, that uses batch auctions to capture surplus for protected liquidity pools.
00:28:25.564 - 00:29:38.084, Speaker A: The solver that gives the highest surplus wins the right to rebalance a pool, thereby capturing the LVR for the pool. So essentially, it is a kind of different model to what you get with, like, uniswap, for example, where, as far as I'm understanding it, these are kind of like, more towards the private order flow rather than the public order flow. But the problem is, is that, like, if you have all public order flow, the MEV can be captured because everyone can see what the order flow is. If you have private order flow, as far as I understand that it is much harder, if not impossible, to capture that MeV unless the private kind of order flow people like the solvers were all colluding with each other in order to do this. Because cow swap works the same way where there's like off chain solvers that fulfill your order for you, and that way they're actually able to offer gasless orders because the gas fees baked into the actual trade in the background, but they're also able to protect you from the kind of like public market MeV here. But then there are questions around this about, like, should we be encouraging liquidity to go off chain, or should we be keeping it on chain and trying to essentially solve MEV issues on chain? We're doing both. But it is much harder to solve issues around MEV when everything's public, right? Because if everything's public, then everyone can see it and then all the mev bots can.
00:29:38.084 - 00:30:07.884, Speaker A: I can basically fight each other for the MEV. And then things get leaky and people lose value and it's just not fun for anyone except the MeV bots. And maybe, I guess like the, you know, the ETH bird and the ETH holders, right? But for the liquidity providers, yeah, it's, it's not great. So I guess kudos to cow swap for innovating here and bringing out this cow amm. You guys know that cow shop is one of my favorite products to use within crypto. I use it all the time for any of the trades that I'm doing. It's always great, always have an amazing experience and always love hearing that moo when my, when my order goes through.
00:30:07.884 - 00:30:34.540, Speaker A: It's just something nice little touch there. I know it's a little bit silly, but nice little touch there. But yeah, you can go check out the full details about this new cow amm. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to do so. All right, just the last thing here, shout out that I'm going to be at upside in Melbourne, which is a web3 co working space in Melbourne that I've been to a bunch of times before and I've probably seen a bunch of you there before. I'm going to be there on the 29th of Feb from 05:30 p.m. On Woods.
00:30:34.540 - 00:30:57.468, Speaker A: I am speaking at this event. I will be talking about Farcaster, I think, mainly, and also just ethereum things in general, of course. But if you want to go to this event, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. If you are in Melbourne or you're going to be in Melbourne on the 29th of Feb. I hope to see you there. Basically, I know there's a few people that are already in Melbourne that listen to the show. I see you guys there whenever that they have meetups, but this is going to be a big meetup apparently.
00:30:57.468 - 00:31:27.316, Speaker A: I was talking to Greg who works with upside there and he says this is going to be one of the bigger meetups and there is a star studded guest list there, including yours truly of course, speaking. So yeah, I'm very much looking forward to this, but this is happening in a couple of weeks. As I said, Thursday 29th of Feb is when it's happening and that day will probably be a rug fuel day because I probably won't have enough time to record a refuel on that day because I'll be at the meetup. But yeah, I'll link that in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But on that note, I've gone over time. So thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to to the channel.
00:31:27.316 - 00:31:32.684, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
