00:00:19.160 - 00:00:19.790, Speaker A: Thank you.
00:00:21.600 - 00:00:37.964, Speaker B: Hello, everyone. This is Inside DFI's SEAL 911 team with Niv Jeskel, and he is the CTO of Hexagate. And we have Michael Llewellyn, head of solutions architect at Oakland Zeppelin. Thanks, guys.
00:00:38.162 - 00:01:15.160, Speaker A: All right, thank you. All right, so I'll kick this off and really quickly explain what is the security alliance and Seal? So you might have noticed we're both from different companies in the security space, and there's many other security companies like us. We all have our own focuses. We work on different commercial projects and many ways we might compete for the same business. But there's a lot of common problems that this industry has faced for a long time in security that requires more than just individual companies trying to fight it. So the Security alliance is an initiative that's been spearheaded by Samsung, who's the head of security at Paradigm. Many of you have probably been following him on Twitter.
00:01:15.160 - 00:02:06.188, Speaker A: He's a well known anon who's been fighting for participating in a lot of security incidents over the last several years. And he, along with many others working with him, noticed a common trend, that it was very difficult to create collaboration between different companies, between different entities. Often it was just working through people who you knew. And so over the last six months, nearly a year now, he has been working with many others to develop a nonprofit group called the Security alliance. That brings a lot of these companies together to serve and protect the web3 community as a whole. So rather than having to focus just on my clients or nibs clients or any specific barriers to helping someone when it's a broader community at risk, we now have a single group that can act for the benefit of the entire ecosystem, and there is plenty to do. We're going into a new bull market.
00:02:06.188 - 00:02:39.376, Speaker A: Lots of security issues continue to be coming out. We had the hack with Seneca that happened very recently, and we are sure there will be more to come, despite our best efforts to try to prevent it. And we're going to have to be ready as a community, not just as individual companies or contributors. So that's what the initiative is all about. Sam, unfortunately, couldn't be here live because he is anonymous. So we are here in his stead to explain what we've been up to and why, if you are in the security community, you should be getting involved. So if you want to learn more, go to securityalliance.org.
00:02:39.376 - 00:03:22.740, Speaker A: But right now, we're going to break down the three initiatives and talk a little bit more about that. So before I jump into that any further, I'll give a quick introduction to myself and then let Niv introduce himself. So, I'm Michael at Openzupplan. As you heard, I'm the head of solutions architecture, which means I focus on a lot of our biggest clients. I do a lot of security work with the compound Dow as their security partner, and then we also do a lot of work with layer two roll ups. We have a smart contract library that is very widely used, and sometimes we'll have security issues with people that use that library, such as third web, which happened a few months back, where we have to ourselves, be involved in a lot of community outreach. And then we also have a security product that we just revamped this last year defender.
00:03:22.740 - 00:03:30.196, Speaker A: So lots of things and lots of things that might compete with others. And so from there, I'll hand it over to Niv to explain what he does at Hexagate.
00:03:30.388 - 00:04:28.970, Speaker C: Thank you. So, I'm neve. I'm the CTO of Hexagate and co founder. Similarly to Openzaplan being a security company, we're another security company in the space. We are providing real time security and detection response for protocols, assets, managers, chains, bridges, or basically anyone working with smart contracts in the space. We are working with more than 20 clients with the biggest names in the industry right now, protecting over a few billions of dollars at risk. And for us, as Michael mentioned, being part of Finland is very powerful because also we are connected to a lot of really smart people, like Michael and his team and others that also help us to actually protect our customers, even in a better way, and also like the broader community.
00:04:29.660 - 00:04:49.552, Speaker A: Yes. Thank you. So, Seal 911, that's the initiative that you've all been hearing about on the panel. So let's start with that, because there are three big initiatives that the security alliance works on, and Seal 911 was the first and still probably one of the biggest impacts that it's had on the community. So if any of you are on telegram, there is a bot that you can contact. It is literally seal. Underscore 911.
00:04:49.552 - 00:05:33.288, Speaker A: Underscore bot. And if you reach out to it, you can get in contact with a team of security researchers that include Sam versace, and then also people from open Zeppelin, from hexagate, and many others, all potential competitors, but work together in this particular group headed by Samsung to work for common security issues that people might come to us for. So one example was over the last weekend, we had someone that came forward about a bug in a well known protocol. There was no bug bounty for this protocol. There was no contact information. This person could find. So the only thing they could do was turn to the 911 team and say, hey, I found this bug, what should I do? And what happened is luckily some people in the team had the right contacts.
00:05:33.288 - 00:05:57.640, Speaker A: Like I said, in a lot of cases it's who you know and was able to get them in contact with that protocol team, get the bug reported, get it fixed. And then that person, even though there was no bug bounty, did end up getting a reward from the protocol for their efforts because Seal 911 was able to represent the fact that this person had come to them to report it in good faith. So that's just one example. There's many others. Niv has been a pretty active participant, so love to hear examples from you.
00:05:57.710 - 00:06:40.372, Speaker C: Basically, as Michael mentioned, we're constantly getting tickets and people from the community surfacing out different types of things happening on the ecosystem. So another example, just recently, maybe like a week ago, where someone found some vulnerable compound fork due to some vulnerability that was already known to anyone, but specifically this project was not aware, most likely for this well known issue. So this guy has been brought to the scene number one. Hey, I was trying to contact the team. I couldn't really reach them. There is like this and that funds currently at risk. And the scene number one really acted so fast.
00:06:40.372 - 00:07:18.924, Speaker C: Like a few people saw the issue specifically, it could have been mitigated without any really white hat activities, but rather like a way to mitigate the issue. And I think this could have turned for some malicious actor actually attacking those funds, but rather because this guy acted so fast and because the scene number one people are always on, then we could really mitigate the issue and save a few millions of dollars just like that by just communicating with the guy over telegram and closing loops really fast.
00:07:19.042 - 00:07:59.324, Speaker A: Yes, and we all know Telegram is the lifeblood for all crypto communications. So that's where we ended up putting it. But I mean, the fact is that we've got over a dozen folks. There's a known repo on GitHub that lists all the contributors. And the biggest thing is that information sharing is really sensitive. If you found a bug, you have to be really careful about who you share that with. So having this common group of researchers who have committed themselves to not share information for their own commercial gain, to do exploits, to in any way misuse it is a really important commitment to have so that when people turn to the seAL 911 team for help, they know and can trust that they are going to be careful and trusted with that information and that they are going to be able to help.
00:07:59.324 - 00:09:04.704, Speaker A: And in a lot of cases, it's just a fact of teams don't know where to turn. Protocols don't know where to turn. We've had protocols that are being exploited just not knowing what to do and need to reach out all the way to, hey, I think my wallet has been scammed. I think my private key was lost in maybe the last pass hack or my phone got stolen or all these other things like what do I do next? How do I save my funds? Because in a lot of these cases, these hacks might be ongoing. There might be funds that could still be saved. There might be ways that they could actually report the crime that has been committed to the FBI or to certain phishing sites and actually get some of those funds recovered, or at the very least, make sure that other people who could be scammed are not going to be because the word is out that maybe this link or this website is actually a scam and they should avoid it. And so there's also been a lot of work on phishing detection where the team's been able to connect to scam sniffer chain patrol, the metamask team, and Tay's also been a very good participant in the whole program among many other people that I couldn't possibly list through.
00:09:04.704 - 00:09:59.476, Speaker A: But they're all on GitHub, and if you want to give them thanks, then definitely give them a shout out on Twitter. So the team's been doing really good work. It's honestly one of the areas I haven't been as focused myself, but I'm always really impressed whenever I see a success story every other day about someone that really was helped, that didn't have anywhere else to turn. And that's the whole point, is we have a lot of knowledge to share with the community, and it's really important for us to be able to actually provide that when they need it, and usually in the speediest way possible, because when hacks happen, speed is often the biggest factor in how many funds can be saved. So I think that's a good overall picture of that initiative, and that's one that I think we're going to continue to see a lot of support in, and we'd love to see anyone that wants to step forward and help again, securityalliance.org if you want to learn more and get involved. But the other initiative that has been going on almost as long is the Seal War games, which is really fun.
00:09:59.476 - 00:10:59.984, Speaker A: It's more about prevention than response, and making sure that a lot of protocol teams, even the biggest protocol teams are prepared when you have a security incident. And so compound, which is one of Opensplan's main security partnerships, was one of the first recipients of this. So we actually did a simulation where Isaac Patek, who's been leading up this initiative and doing great work, set up a mainnet fork of compound, which basically means let's simulate everything going on in compound, but on a separate private fork. Let's run all the monitoring infrastructure that you're using to detect security issues and see how that works, and then actually introduce a bug and a bot that will exploit this bug and see what happens. In this particular case, it was an oracle failure, so, oops, the prices are being misreported. Someone's going to take advantage of that to start making trades to their advantage. How quickly does the team detect it? How quickly does the team figure out how to respond, and then how quickly have you resolved the incident and how many funds are you able to save? So in that, I think we were able to detect the issue within a couple minutes of it occurring, or actually within less than a minute.
00:10:59.984 - 00:11:31.040, Speaker A: We're like, oh, we can clearly see the oracle reporting bad prices. We can clearly see someone starting to exploit that. Ironically, the thing that took the longest time was not detection, but the response. And we knew very quickly what we should do. We should pause that protocol, that particular marketing compound, to prevent the loss. But then we have a multisig of about four out of seven signers that need to show up and actually sign the transaction deposit. So getting all the multisig members to sign very rapidly in quick succession, was actually the biggest bottleneck.
00:11:31.040 - 00:12:57.596, Speaker A: Just a show of hands. How many people here have ever used a multisig or a safe? All right, there's a hand. And I'm going to guess, has anyone used it in an emergency situation where you had to sign it in less than a minute or two with multiple signers? Yeah, it's something that most teams, even some of the biggest teams in Defi, haven't actually done before until they actually have to, and then that's the point where the timing really matters. So getting to do it in a practice environment where you actually see, how quickly can you get to your keys? Are they on your wallet? Are they on a hardware device? How quickly can you plug it into the computer? Do you have your computer on your hardware wallet? Are you traveling? Are you in the right time zone? Will you hear the notification where someone's asking you to sign up and sign that transaction? These are all the things that usually teams don't actually have a chance to think about until it's happening. So these simulations are a really good opportunity, and we took an overall response time of around 40 minutes, and we're able to cut that down to about to less than ten minutes on average to get multisig signatures by introducing a pager system, rotating out some of the multisig members and generally just practicing, hey, this is going to be the step that we take to quickly sign and quickly be ready in the future. And since compound, they've also done a lot of simulations with both Ave and urine, who are very big protocols, have very good teams with security, but still, having an outsider come in and put them in a situation where they have to respond and they don't know what's going to hit them is really, really valuable. And it's something that we definitely encourage all teams to do.
00:12:57.596 - 00:13:36.360, Speaker A: And seal continues to provide this as a service. If you go to the website, you can sign up for the waitlist to receive one of these drills for free. And it's generally gauged by how big of a protocol are you? How much of an impact on the community would there be if you were hacked and you didn't respond appropriately? But even then, a lot of the things that are being learned in war games are being regularly published on notion and other resources so that other teams can learn. How can I run simulations? How can I run monitoring? So I know on the monitoring side, Niv, this is hexagate's bread and butter. Just generally, what are the things that a lot of teams aren't thinking about with monitoring, or are just really important to think about when you might be setting up a war game. Yes.
00:13:36.430 - 00:14:40.344, Speaker C: So I think also to add on what you mentioned around incident response and having really precise roles and responsibilities when an emergency happens every now and then. Also, the CM one one one members participate in war rooms where really, protocols are not prepared at all whenever something big hits them. And then it's one of the most chaotic things you can really participate in. People just do not know what to do, like trying to contact exchanges, because maybe the attacker would deposit some funds into exchanges, try to contact circle to freeze the funds and so on. Like lots of different kinds of ideas in which if you are not prepared upfront, then you really don't stand a chance. And back to the question, or like monitoring. So basically, the mindset that we have when we protect the protocol is hexagate or like part of cinema one, literally the same mindset where we first thing is kind of map all the threats in the protocol.
00:14:40.344 - 00:16:26.956, Speaker C: Understand, where exactly are we expecting some failures to happen, for example, like an oracle deviation or some bad oracle updates, whatever, or just generally in the contract audit might have missed a couple of bugs, which is completely because audits are just not enough to cover any type of bug. So when we work with protocols, for example, we set up monitors for anything really that might fail, which is also like monitoring, which is based on machine learning that tries to detect unknown threats. And also like the known threats, like any administration changes due to maybe like private key theft, any deviations in oracles and so on. Once we have all the detections in place, then we start working on instant response, where we do this tabletop exercise, we set up our roles and responsibilities for every personnel in the team, who is in charge of comms, who is in charge of triaging the bug, who is the one responsible for sending or even automating some action, such as pausing the protocol and so on. So all in, after you have this full blown detection and response, only then we believe that then security is really achieved, because with just detection itself, as Michael mentioned, you have the best detection, but then 40 minutes later you try to assemble all the team from all the time zones to sign some transaction. Obviously it doesn't work, so you have to notify them, keep it in the loop with some pager or something. And also on the other side of the response, you must have very clear steps on what you're going to do just besides detection.
00:16:26.956 - 00:16:31.680, Speaker C: So it's kind of a combo of both detection and response, 100%.
00:16:31.750 - 00:17:52.730, Speaker A: And best way to know for sure is to run through as realistic a drill as you can with maybe even a few team members not knowing it's a drill, all the better. So with the time they have left, we'll talk about the last initiative that has recently come out from the security alliance, which is the White harbor agreement. Now, I'll say that we've already talked about your prevention, which is ideally having run through these scenarios and being prepared when you maybe find a bug or are trying to figure out how to fix it, maybe going to steal 911. But there are some scenarios that have come up, such as with the nomad hack that happened a year or two ago, where a security researcher might come across a bug and they might be in a situation where they know that bug is going to imminently be exploited. And their only options, at least in their mind, are either I can let it be exploited and let a black hat steal these funds, or I can act to exploit the protocol myself to safeguard the funds and then give them back to the protocol. Now, that is a very dicey proposition from a legal, ethical, just make sure you get it right sort of perspective. However, these are things that have come up, such as with the nomad white hat exploit, where a lot of people in the community were coming forward to help to save funds, and then in other cases where you've actually had maybe a transaction in the mempool that you know is about to exploit the protocol, so maybe you can front run it to safeguard the funds in that way.
00:17:52.730 - 00:19:07.540, Speaker A: So these are very specific examples. They definitely don't apply to every scenario. And in many places, it's probably better to report a bug rather than whitehead exploit it. But for those scenarios, what the security alliance has put together is a white harbor legal agreement that allows a protocol to publish a legal document that says, if you follow these procedures, we will consent to you white hacking our protocol to safeguard funds, and you may send them to this recovery address specifically. So, I'm not a lawyer, no one on here is, but this is a legal document that is available and is currently going into open review with the community to receive feedback to see what protocols might be interested in implementing this, and what white hats might be comfortable exploiting protocols in these very specific scenarios with this agreement in place. So we're currently collecting feedback on that. Now, I'm very interested to see what comes, but I think the most important thing there is just making sure we have as many tools as possible, and that even if we get to a scenario where a white hat is necessary, we've done everything we can beforehand in terms of doing good testing on the code, getting good audits, getting good monitoring, getting good instrument response policies, all the way down to, okay, there's now these very specific scenarios where a white hat might be necessary.
00:19:07.540 - 00:19:47.676, Speaker A: So in all, the purpose of the security alliance is to work on all these initiatives simultaneously to better have really defense in depth for security across the community. And a lot of this work is coming from different places. Openzeppen. We feel very confident about our solidity and smart contract auditing skills. Hexgate is very good at real time monitoring. In some cases, we might be competitors, but within the security alliance, we can work together and pool our resources, along with dozens of other great security researchers that have already put in a lot of effort and saved a lot of funds and helped a lot of protocols sleep better at night. But at the same time, it comes down to everyone's individual effort and making sure that we collectively make the best use of it.
00:19:47.676 - 00:20:15.990, Speaker A: So that's for the most part, the remainder of our time. If you are interested in getting involved, or if you want to make use of any of these resources or in any way learn more, go to securityalliance.org. And that is a great place to get started. We're always looking for feedback. We're looking for new members to get involved, to help contribute their security knowledge, and to just tell us how we're doing and what are problems in the industry you want us to be focusing on next. So thank you all for your time. And yeah, we hope to see you at the next one.
00:20:15.990 - 00:20:16.720, Speaker A: Bye.
