00:00:01.520 - 00:00:33.984, Speaker A: Hey, guys, let's talk about intent. I think most of you guys already heard about the word intent. And how many of you guys can explain what's the definition of intent to others? Can you show me your hand? Okay. Yeah. Okay. So that's shared perspective from a wallet. Okay, so, Dawson.
00:00:33.984 - 00:01:02.290, Speaker A: Okay. I'm Dawson deferral from Blogto. And Blogto is a wallet provide the best user experience. We have already accumulated 1.7 million users since 2019. And we provide our own, like, universal gas solutions. So you can use the block point to subsidize all the transaction fee across the blockchains.
00:01:02.290 - 00:01:43.184, Speaker A: We support it and we provide this missed custodial experience. So we onboard the user first with a custodial mode, and then we provide a way to. For them to switch to non custodial mode. So we let them use easily first and then educate them to switch to non custodial demo for the security reason. And I'm a hacker. I have seven years of experience in software developing and three years in crypto. By the way, I really like choose and we will know why later.
00:01:43.184 - 00:03:01.964, Speaker A: So what are intents? If you look it up, you probably find this explanation from the parenting article says that intent assign a set of decorative constraints which allow the user to outsource transaction creation to a third party without link machine for control to the transacting party. So, okay, what the heck is that? So allow me to make a configurative example. If I, as you already know, I really like juice. So if I want some juice, I already know the bottle of juice will cost me $5. And so I have one option is that I just go directly to the shop that sell this juice and then grab one from the shelf, go to the cashier checkout. And I do have a second option that I can just out to my neighborhood and to say that, okay, I'm willing to pay $6 for a lot of juice. So anyone who is interested can just, like, do the dura chores for me.
00:03:01.964 - 00:04:08.764, Speaker A: And so here, maybe there's a kid, like, he's interested in this kind of things. So because I offer, like, $1 more for the incentive, so I can just lie on my couch and then let this kid help me do the job. So as you can see that in the left hand side, it's like the normal transaction and the right hand side is the intent. So sometimes things could go wrong. What if one of my neighbor know the shop? I will go, and then he can just, like, rush into the same place and then buy all the juice before me. And then because he know that I want this juice so bad, so he would just like sold me like $8 after. So I just like have to pay three extra dollars in this case.
00:04:08.764 - 00:05:43.360, Speaker A: But the other hand, if like this kid found out this store is run out of juice, he can just simply go to the next one, or probably he can just like go to the factory that manufacture this juice, right? He can because there could be a lot of kids and those kids can have like a different expertise. So he would just like try to find a way to solve, to help me achieve my goal. And so in this case, on the left hand side the minor extravagant value will be $3 but on the right hand side will be zero because the $6 is the maximum I'm willing to pay. And so you can see that intent is that I am willing to pay $6 for a bottle of juice and the silver could be anyone. So in this case, I don't really care about when this job has been done and who is going to help me achieve that or which store, which path does this software take and. Yep. So that sounds revolutionary, right? Because you can just lie down your couch and then wait for someone to help you do the job.
00:05:43.360 - 00:07:10.894, Speaker A: And intent should be the future of transactions, right? Is it? So the reason why I say that it's not exactly revolutionary because you probably already familiar with the NFT marketplace nowadays. So the whole older book is built upon intent because you put some like restriction to your orders and you expect some, some outcome. So you probably already sent intent before. Okay, so let's do a comparison. For no more transaction, you have to be aware of where you're going to buy things or achieve your goal and then you have to initiate a transaction by yourself. So basically you are the market taker, you take something out from the market. And for intent, actually you're just like, you have to be aware that your order might not get, may not get executed and actually you are letting out others for the solvers, right? If the price isn't like match for the current market, then your order will just lie on the order book.
00:07:10.894 - 00:08:40.434, Speaker A: And basically you are the market maker, you are actually adding more depth to the order book. So the left hand side, it's like the imperative ways of next, a few things, and on the right hand side will be declarative ways to do things. So let's take a look at the implementation. Here is the pseudocode of the function in a smart contract provided by intendedapps. So here the solver will try to execute this function with the older detail and this order detail can be stored off chain or on chain. So usually if the order detail being stored off chain will be more centralized, but in this case more centralized service will provide more like efficiency or probably get cheaper. And so after that we will leverage ERC 712 type data, which is like the structure of data, and then we will verify whether who is the authorizer, this one on this order.
00:08:40.434 - 00:09:30.864, Speaker A: And then after that we will just execute the content. And at the end of this function we'll just check whether the changes match all the constraints. If it does, then it would just like this transition rule was succeeded, otherwise it would just revert. So everything will be nothing, there will be nothing happening, so it won't be a loss for the user. And let's take a look at the current flow. If you're using a UA wallet. So before you send out the intent, you have to authorize those smart contract provided by those intent dapp.
00:09:30.864 - 00:10:49.334, Speaker A: So let's say your intent, including three different assets, you have to sit send three different exit separately, right? And then you just like take time and then take you some gas. And then there is a restriction that you couldn't approve ETH to certain contract unless you deposit it first. And so basically you still have to depend on certain smart contract. And then this smart contract will have to have either already have some asset or have some assets to your asset. So does it sound familiar? Yeah, that is a smart account. So basically if you use a smart account obstruction wallet, you don't need to approve any asset when you send out an intent. And then also we support native token because that is the smart account, right? So you already have some ETH in it.
00:10:49.334 - 00:11:25.894, Speaker A: So let's recap. Oh, here. So after you send out the intent, you just like wait for the receipt solver or resolver to help you match your order with someone else. And so the solver will initiate this transaction to fulfill multiple orders at the same time. Let's recap. Intent is not a whole new concept. It's already been there and you probably already sent it without knowing it.
00:11:25.894 - 00:12:18.284, Speaker A: Intent will not replace normal transaction because it's like a two different approach. If you want something instantly, you just like send out your own normal transaction. But if you got some time and you are patient to wait for the best price, you probably want to send out intent. And by its nature, intent is meb protection protected. So the user, either way your intent didn't get fulfilled, so you won't have any loss there. Otherwise you would just like have to match the constraint you made and to get your result. And yeah, and because you are not the one who initiate the transaction.
00:12:18.284 - 00:13:06.454, Speaker A: So it could be guest list. And when it comes to intent, AA will be the future. It should be the future. So I'm going to shout to essential that, you know, because there's a lot of account obstruction wallet and there's a lot of intent dapps. So we need a standard to help the, to how to say, empower the solver so that we can gather those solver together to create the best, to provide the best price to our user. And that's really important things to do. And that's it.
00:13:06.454 - 00:13:24.494, Speaker A: This is my Twitter, so feel free to follow. And if you have any question about like AA and how do we think about intent, feel free to call me and then send me a message. Think that's a wrap.
