00:00:05.450 - 00:00:49.260, Speaker A: We are ready to move on to our last talk of the day. So we've already spent the past few hours talking about how each of the different grant programs are structured and how everything has evolved so far. And you've also even now seen a showcase of some of the incredible projects that the Ave grants has funded. But to kind of really sum it all up, I want to do this last panel on what does it mean to successfully receive a grant from Aave? And how do you actually go from applying to the finish line? And having this discussion will be Shreyas and Nimran, who will help out with the Aave Grants program. And I'll let them jump in directly. So welcome back Shreyas and Imran, and I'll let you take it from here.
00:00:50.910 - 00:01:41.520, Speaker B: Thank you, Karthik. Hey, Sharia, how are you know, we've been working with each other for quite some time now and there's just a lot of learnings both from working with other Dows and working with all of the new participants that are applying for Ave grants. There's been many questions that have come up, at least for me, when I'm talking to the recipients. And one question I get very commonly is what are the right ideas or what are the right opportunities for Ave and other protocols and how should I be using my resources to help, let's say, Ave as an example? And so maybe we could start with that and then we can start to think about the design space, then the process, and then how we think about grants moving forward.
00:01:42.450 - 00:02:57.622, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a good question. I think the number one thing is just something that benefits Aave. And it seems simple, but because of the nature of open source contributions and the types of projects that can apply, there's startups, there's sort of a general public good type contribution, there can just be a lot. And I think at the very least, your project should benefit Ave in some way. And what that means is it can benefit, you know, like Genalda Network built, something that saves Ave users from costly liquidations. It could benefit sort of governance contributors and so making the governance interface easier or improving streamlining the governance process in some way, it could help Ave protocol directly. So like increasing TBL, bringing stablecoin liquidity to Aave, or yeah, it could help the general Dow, like setting up a subdao that focuses on risk or treasury or something else.
00:02:57.622 - 00:04:00.390, Speaker C: And so I would say to start off a bunch of projects kind of get ruled out because they don't seem to be benefiting Ave in some way. It doesn't mean that the project should go on to do other things. It's just that the benefits shouldn't be like a really small tangential thing. It should be something that's kind of a focus with the grant. And so I would say I wouldn't overcomplicate what's the best thing that Aave needs? We of course, have RFPs on our site and there's some things we prioritize like the Governance UI and the developers dao. But I would say know the problem is more basic than that, where a lot of projects are building something that might be really useful and actually a valuable either public good or a valuable startup. But it feels like the ave benefit is really forced nonexistent or it's just like a side note.
00:04:00.390 - 00:04:03.820, Speaker C: Yeah, that's probably how I'd answer it.
00:04:04.590 - 00:04:50.598, Speaker B: Thank you. And you've touched on some interesting things, which I'll talk about in a bit. But one point that I wanted to make earlier with our conversation with Robert Leshner Stanny was the fact that accessibility has been an interesting play into how grants are being processed. Previously, like Web Two, you could think about these grants are effectively like venture funds or venture investments to seed new ideas. Now the rate of seeding new ideas is exponentially growing because of all the grants that's out there. And so accessibility and then you have kind of the rate of speed of how we're supporting these newer founders or developers into the ecosystem. And so how are you seeing that landscape? And are you talking to people from all over the world? What does your day to day look like from that perspective?
00:04:50.774 - 00:05:45.722, Speaker C: Yeah, it's a good question. I think there's a lot of diverse developer and other contributor activity, more so than I would say in the traditional venture type ecosystem. And so one reason for that is just the nature of crypto. Crypto generally has attracted all sorts of people from sort of the non traditionally credentialed backgrounds. And that extends to these grants programs as well. The other element of crypto is like the pseudonymous component, like Symphony Finance, the Kadenabi Grant fully pseudonymous team. And we did some sort of KYC verification, but yeah, that's sort of kept private and it's a fully synonymous team that can apply.
00:05:45.722 - 00:06:41.120, Speaker C: That's quite hard in the traditional world. And yeah, the grants are from pretty much all over. I spoken to a bunch of teams across Europe, vietnam teams, a bunch of teams in India, teams in the US, canada, so pretty much from all over. Actually not thinking of it, it'd be cool to do a pie chart of these applicants and the folks we're funding too. But yeah, I'd say it's pretty much from all over. I would say I would like to see maybe more focus, maybe more female applicants. And there's definitely areas maybe we can do a better job just in terms of outreach Mangy's from Shifai, maybe some collaboration there or something.
00:06:41.120 - 00:07:28.940, Speaker C: But yeah, in terms of geographic distribution, I think it's pretty much from all over the place. Maybe the only restriction is you do have to apply for the grant in English. And so there's probably some areas that are restricted that way. But outside of that, we're quite open and accessible to pretty much all types of contributions. And this includes we're focused a lot on developer projects versus more community oriented ones though a bunch of them. They're really interesting. I think as we expand our budget pending governance approval and everything, we would like to focus more on this culture and community bit.
00:07:28.940 - 00:07:54.206, Speaker C: But yeah, I think for now the focus has been on these developer projects. But there's of course, many more skills that you can apply, including analysis, community culture. There's stuff you could do in the NFT world that we can fund through Abigrant. So would like to do more of that as we have more money to fund these projects.
00:07:54.398 - 00:08:34.850, Speaker B: And what's also very interesting is I'm starting to see more and more of this within, just like when we're interviewing applicants is the fact that some of them don't even have web3 experience, right and they want to contribute in traditional sense like the Web two world. I know we've seen a mobile app that's being proposed to build Ravi. I've seen dashboards risk analysis that are being proposed by Web two founders. And that's very interesting because I know Kartik and ETH global team has done a great job of bringing high quality developers into the Ethereum ecosystem. And now we're starting to see grants playing a part in that, which I thought was an indirect effect. So what are your thoughts about that?
00:08:35.000 - 00:09:31.540, Speaker C: Yeah, it's really cool because I think it's actually a really good onboarding for people. In fact, just like I would recommend someone who has some web two experience to just do a hackathon at Ethlobal or Gitkind and make your way through. I would include Ave grants as one of them along with Uni and Comp grants. I think it's really cool way that you can, if you don't know at all what to do, just look at the RFPs and there's something that you'll be able to fulfill with your skill set. And I actually recommended this to a few friends who wanted to kind of just get their hands dirty in getting into crypto. I actually think that's one of the advantages of a grants program. It seems very simple and straightforward that you have this application you can actually apply and you can do something concrete and you can get funded for it.
00:09:31.540 - 00:10:52.542, Speaker C: It's very useful for a large swath of people. Most people actually aren't sort of that comfortable just getting in front of a Dow and just proposing what they want to do. And you have to be a certain type of person which quite forthcoming and extroverted and willing to say what just take initiative and even when you don't know who it said, sort of just push something forward, which I think is a very useful thing too. But I think grants are very useful for a bunch of people who kind of want a more private, I think, application if you'rejected you'rejected privately, it's not this sort of public facing Dow that's rejecting you. There's also a way to just a lot of times the rejection isn't just something they can tweak or maybe it's not a fit now because of what we're focusing on or something, but the relationship is still there and can continue. And so, yeah, I would say it's definitely one of those things. I would say that, that a web two person should consider applying for one of these D Five grants to, to get in.
00:10:52.542 - 00:11:46.538, Speaker C: I would also say once you do one of these, you can then go on to work for the developers now, or work for Ave company. It's a really cool, almost career path. I don't know how long this is going to last because we're at the stage where we know every grant that's been funded. We have a lot of inbound, but it's not that overwhelming. Each of these projects get a lot of, I think, attention and are noticed. That's really cool too. And I would like to expand our sort of reach and ability to do this more where we can actually be more targeted.
00:11:46.538 - 00:12:24.060, Speaker C: I was speaking to the blockchain in Berkeley folks earlier today, and there's probably ways we can coordinate with some of the university groups to sort of source developer work and talent. That way there's definitely more we can sort of push from our side. But from the inbound perspective, I definitely think there's a lot of people who fit that category of they're not like solidity devs with a lot of experience. They're iterating and figuring their way out and the grants is like a good safe space to do that.
00:12:26.910 - 00:13:21.326, Speaker B: Yeah, and I want to touch on a very interesting point that's happened many times throughout just like the crypto history, which is like high quality founders will or people that want to become entrepreneurs will find any way to get access to funding so they can see their idea. And this is for all the developers that are listening today. I give you a clear example of the 1inchh team and how they built the first iteration of 1inchh at an ETH Global Hackathon, or Samay and team at Eat San Francisco and Eat India. And so people that are aspiring to be founders seed your idea, right. You have this great opportunity. There's so many grants that are available to you and there's just a lot you could do with Ave ecosystem and others. And so for potential founders, this is like a great opportunity.
00:13:21.326 - 00:13:31.306, Speaker B: And maybe Shreya is maybe highlighting what were some of the success stories been like for those that received grants from us at Abe?
00:13:31.498 - 00:14:37.134, Speaker C: Yeah, and I just want to comment on that. I want to add in addition to the money, basically without diluting yourself, you're getting some capital to basically build something and learn and iterate and experiment. You also have, I think, a community that you're almost like taking along with your project. And so if you're building something alongside Ave or you focus on one or two protocols and you're really sort of tailoring or integrating with them. You have their sort of support, I think, which is very useful, especially if you're a project without sort of any visibility. It's cool to have that initial backing and integration to then do other things. And so that's, I think, a value add that I've I've seen some projects comment on in terms of the success stories.
00:14:37.134 - 00:15:32.898, Speaker C: Like, you know, pretty much a lot of the grants for funding are really useful and important things. And the main thing is just to actually ship it and execute it. And if 100% of projects do that, all of them would be really great and useful in different ways. And so in terms of the ones that have gelato comes to mind, they ship really quickly and they built this useful solution to prevent users from these costly liquidations. I think they had a lot of background on the solidity and smart contract side, but I think they use another group's help to build a UI. And so they were just like sort of hacky and quick and built something. Symphony Finance just went public, I think, on launch their beta on Polygon.
00:15:32.898 - 00:16:47.454, Speaker C: And so they're equal too. They're building basically a way to earn yield with limit orders. I think there's Omni Analytics was another one where they kind of took over the, the sort of analytics function from some of the stuff that Ave company was doing. And we actually wanted an Ave grants like Dune analytics grant that they're helping manage. They put together some really cool analytics on Ave, on Polygon, on Dune, and they're also, I think, building a separate dashboard in R because Dune is limiting in some ways. And so the way I describe success is honestly like completing what the scope grant that these projects have laid out and a few that there are definitely more that have completed it successfully. But I'd say just doing that is a big enough step because some of these projects are ambitious, but all of them are quite useful to the ecosystem, which is why we're funding it.
00:16:47.454 - 00:17:23.660, Speaker C: So there's a wide spectrum of things from sort of analytics to some more ambitious projects, say, like bringing zero collateral loans to Ave or something that is more ambitious and will take more time and has more steps. But yeah, our approach from Ave grant side is if the project has a higher grant size, we just split into multiple milestones. But we don't shy away from funding those. It's just that we need to make sure that the execution can actually be done. And there's a clear roadmap to that.
00:17:24.430 - 00:17:32.666, Speaker B: And I guess we're almost at time. But one final question is how easy or hard is it to apply for Rave and receive a grant?
00:17:32.858 - 00:18:32.400, Speaker C: Yeah, it's very straightforward to apply. It should be like 15 minutes to finish the application and there's no trick questions or something. It's quite straightforward just say what you're working on. One thing to keep in mind is, again, clearly outline why you're applying to the Aave grant, like the benefit to Aave, the Ave e system, or users the community in some way. And then we'll get back to you if it makes sense to schedule an interview with one of the grant reviewers. And then after the interview, the interview, basically, if there's any feedback to the other grant star members, we'll ask for feedback. But then besides that, we should get back to you with the decision soon.
00:18:32.400 - 00:19:30.160, Speaker C: The only constraint is we like to batch things together. We'd like to send sort of maybe ten decisions together. So it might just be a little weird to just batch them together. But yeah, besides that, it should be quite straightforward to apply and yeah, if for some reason we think the project can be tweaked in some way to make it better suited, or maybe the grant amount is too exoplanet and there's a smaller amount that makes sense, we'll definitely let you know. And even the interview, it's sort of meant to be a conversation to understand just what you're building, some evidence that you actually execute on this and then why it's useful to the RV system. And that's pretty much a summary of things. And we'll have maybe specific questions on the direction you're taking or something.
00:19:31.090 - 00:19:38.120, Speaker B: Cool. Well, sure. Thank you so much. I'll pass it over to Cart Tick for the final. Yeah.
00:19:38.890 - 00:19:40.370, Speaker A: That was incredible chat.
