00:00:00.160 - 00:00:51.728, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Deli Gray refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Stanley Nissison. The 23 September 2022 alright everyone, let's get into it. So some fresh regulatory news out today that isn't actually positive, it's actually quite negative. Now this was announced on Twitter by a bunch of various people, but this tweet from DB reads, the commission defines the Uki Dao unincorporated association as those holders of UKI tokens that have voted on governance proposals with respect to running the business. If you are a Uki token holder who voted on governance proposals, you just got charged. So the original kind of thing here is that the CFTC is charging the Uki Dao, which I believe was BZX before it was called UKi, for the offering of illegal off exchange digital asset trading, registration violations, and failing to comply with the Bank Secrecy Act.
00:00:51.728 - 00:01:39.842, Speaker A: Secrecy act. This is obviously pretty serious charges here, but in their the kind of charges, they also define the people who are holding the governance tokens and have used those governance tokens to vote on things as people that can be charged as well here, which obviously doesn't really make much sense. It's a big overreach. And this is disappointing coming from the CFTC, who have traditionally been, I guess, more, more friendly than the SEC at least. But it seems they're all going down the, the same path now where they're trying to, I guess, use as much power as they can, even if they don't have that power, to go after things like Defi. And we all knew this was coming, right? Like we all knew that defies, I guess, regulatory issues were only going to get worse from here. But this sort of stuff is just way overstepping, right? It just doesn't really make any sense.
00:01:39.842 - 00:02:19.696, Speaker A: And there's a few takes here from some lawyers. First one from Jake Trevinsky, who said the CFTC's BZX enforcement action may be the most egregious example of regulation by enforcement in the history of crypto. We've complained at length about the SEC abusing this tactic, but the CFTC has put them to shame. And you can read commissioner's Mersinga dissent here as well, which I'll link in the YouTube description. And then Jake continues by saying it's deeply disappointing to see the CFTC damage its own reputation like this among those who care about the future of crypto in the United States, especially at a critical moment where, while it pitches itself in Congress as the right agency to regulate, quote unquote, digital commodity trades. So, I mean, I totally agree with Jake. It's very disappointing here.
00:02:19.696 - 00:02:54.658, Speaker A: And where he says, you know, this is regulation by enforcement rather than regulation via kind of the traditional and the proper means through the law and things like that. What he's basically saying is that this is kind of going to lead to a chilling effect. I mean, the goal would probably be that chilling effect where the same is with OFAC, where they went after tornado cash. They wanted to put a chilling effect on mixers, on Ethereum. Right. And for people using that mixer. So the same is true with this, is it seems like the CFTC is coming hard against a small player like Uki or BZX.
00:02:54.658 - 00:03:18.238, Speaker A: They're very small, actually. Now. They used to be a lot bigger back in the day, but they're tiny now because BZX's history is pretty, pretty bad, actually. I think they've been hacked like three times. They just didn't really ever get product market fit. And now they're being charged with this. So what ends up happening is that they go off to the smaller players because they're the ones who can't fight back, right? Can't afford the nice fancy lawyers, can't afford to kind of go through all the motions to fight back against this.
00:03:18.238 - 00:03:56.840, Speaker A: And then that leads to a chilling effect for all the bigger players or leads to essentially these bigger players over complying or, you know, complying way more than they should. Sort of what we saw, like with the OFAC sanctions. And I think that because the OFAC sanctions seems to have worked so well, at least temporarily, these other agencies are probably looking at that and being like, wow, okay, you know, these guys are just going to fall over. These guys are just pushovers. We can just do regulation via enforcement without having to actually prove any wrongdoing or have to go to court or, you know, settle with lawyers, we can just scare everyone into compliance. That is a really shitty thing to do, but not surprising. And also, I don't think it's going to work long term.
00:03:56.840 - 00:04:51.716, Speaker A: It'll for sure work short term. But what's good, what will end up happening is if they keep going down this road, these institutions and regulatory bodies keep going down this road of enforcement via, via, sorry, of enforcement in example of regulation by enforcement. So I should say what's going to end up happening is that a lot of play, a lot of people, businesses, dows, whatever they, whatever you want to call them, are going to leave the US. They're going to go somewhere else which is more friendly to them. And that's going to be a huge blow to the US because we all know, we all believe that crypto is the future of, of not only finance, but of a lot of different things within a lot of different industries. And if the US wants to take such a hard line stance against that and scare off all the talent, well, that's very bearish for the US is kind of outlook within crypto. Now, as I said, this is a short term thing in terms of it working so medium to long term, it would result in that.
00:04:51.716 - 00:05:18.504, Speaker A: Or these agencies, basically, they try this and then it doesn't work and then they maybe play, play fair. R but I don't know, I don't really trust any of these agencies to do that. And this is just very, very disappointing. And there's a couple of other tweets here. One here from a Twitter account called chairman Bird Bernanke, who said the CFTC themselves has never defined a dow this way. This is the first instance even Masinga can find of this definition. I don't think this is how the law should work.
00:05:18.504 - 00:05:57.452, Speaker A: This is an admission that you can be charged with a crime that's only defined when you're charged. Now that's a key point there. Now, basically, the way they've defined a DAO here is that the Dow isn't defined as any one token holder, but as anyone who voted during a time period, this means you can be in the DAO by being a token holder. But if you vote for anything, such as a high interest rate, then only then are you liable. So this is really, like stupid. And as they pointed out here, this is an admission that you can be charged with a crime that's only defined when you're charged, which is obviously not a fair way to do justice. It doesn't make any sense and is, again, a massive overreach here.
00:05:57.452 - 00:06:24.776, Speaker A: So I think that all in all, this is very, I mean, I wouldn't say it's bearish or scary or anything for Defi. I would say it's concerning in that these regulators are trying everything they can, it seems to come down on crypto without actually having the power to do so. They're trying to do that chilling effect. They're trying to scare people. And I mean, it worked for Ofac. So the SEC and the CFTC are probably looking and being like, okay, well, let's just do the same thing. Let's just scare people into compliance.
00:06:24.776 - 00:07:05.702, Speaker A: Scare people into over compliance and to their, I guess, credit on this, like I mean a lot of DeFi is easily scared, especially the DeFi projects that are based in the US. They're, the team members obviously don't want to fall afoul of the law at all. And they've got lawyers and stuff, but still, they don't want to have to spend time on that. So they definitely over comply when they, when they shouldn't. And last up here is a tweet from, from Drew Hinks about this, who says CFTC brings. He had just basically announced it first regulatory action against a DAO. So charging Uki Dao with operating an unlicensed FCM, seeking disgorgement, restitution, civil monetary penalties, trading and registration bans and injunctive relief.
00:07:05.702 - 00:07:34.496, Speaker A: This is a. Yeah, these are obviously very serious charges and they've kind of gone the full nine yards here and they're doing it against the Dow as well. And as I said, they defined a DAO is basically the token holders who vote on things, not just the token holders themselves. But you have to actually actively participate in governance. And what I find hilarious about this is that most of the people who hold these tokens never ever participate in governance. And that's not because of legal liability, at least not for, for most people. It's because they just don't care to.
00:07:34.496 - 00:08:12.472, Speaker A: Right. And this is just gonna actually have a more chilling effect and make people not want to do it because in case they, they are breaking a law here. But the way I view this is, it's basically, as I said again, it's basically trying to do that chilling effect. But the chances of you getting in trouble for voting on something and in a Dow is the same chances of you getting in trouble for pirating copyrighted content. Right. Like it's, it's just in theory, I mean, yeah, you may be doing something wrong, but in practice you're probably not going to get prosecuted for it or get any, anyone coming after you. They usually go after the source, you know, in terms of pirated content, they usually go after the distributors.
00:08:12.472 - 00:09:09.270, Speaker A: And in terms of a Dow, they would probably go after the people actually building the, I guess, Defi app that is associated with the Dow because it's just a better way to do it and it's basically impossible to go after every single little individual. Right. But still, concerning, not great. I think that we're going to have to just like see how this folds out over the next few years. There's gonna be fighting over this within potentially in the courts, but outside of the courts, between lawyers and I mean at the end of the day the winners from this are the lawyers. Like all the Defi teams are probably like holy shit, like I need to be prepared for this, I need to probably get lawyers all this sorts of stuff, but we'll have to see what happens there. But on that note, there was some positive news over the last 24 hours on the regulatory front, which I guess is, is related to the regulatory front and that is that GitHub unbanned the Tornado Cash organization and contributors on their platform, uh, which means that the tornado cache code is now live on GitHub again, which is awesome.
00:09:09.270 - 00:10:08.834, Speaker A: Obviously, I remember I spoke about this when the OFAC, when OFAC sanctioned tornado cash the first time and GitHub was very very quick to take it down because of the fact that it was on the sanctions list. Now the code itself, OFAC, actually stated that here on the 14 September that us persons are not prohibited by us sanctions regulations from copying the open source code and making it available online for others to view, which means that GitHub is not liable if it's on their website because it's not actually illegal for them to do that. So it's really, really cool to see that they've unbanned it. Now. It's still, I mean look, GitHub is obviously a pretty big centralized point of failure for a lot of our industry because everyone uses it to store code. And yeah, okay, it's open source, but I mean at the click of a button they can remove that from their platform. So we definitely need to still kind of encourage decentralized versions of GitHub, all or putting code in multiple places, not just on, on one mega centralized website, because GitHub is owned by Microsoft, for those of you who didn't know.
00:10:08.834 - 00:11:26.926, Speaker A: So obviously one of the most centralized and us centric companies in the world, that is definitely not going to, not going to fight for us, right, because our industry is still so small comparatively. But also we should just have the code on multiple different places. But still cool to see that this was unbanned. As I said, some light positive regulatory news in the face of that really shitty CFTC News over the last 24 hours. All right, so terrence from the prior labs team tweeted out one week since the merge, everyone around me is just working on withdrawals and 4844, can devs take a break please? I remember I said, you know, after the merge that, or leading up to the merge that the devs were actually going to take a four to five week break until after Defcon order to recharge their batteries. But as I said before, it seems like they are so I guess like there's so much momentum after the merge and they, they feel so I guess motivated to keep working on stuff that they're still working on withdrawals and 4844, which are both tentatively scheduled to go into the Shanghai update, which is absolutely awesome. I mean both of these things are major upgrades, right? I mean technically withdrawals being enabled isn't a quote unquote upgrade, but it's a feature that is needed to complete that loop of proof of stake.
00:11:26.926 - 00:12:03.056, Speaker A: Ethereum, you know, some, some could argue that, I mean you could make the argument that Ethereum is not a hundred percent full proof of stake network as it exists today because we don't have withdrawals enabled it, it limits the network still. And I would actually agree with that argument. So that's obviously coming as soon as it can. And then 4844 is that proto dank sharding which may not seem urgent right now considering demand is quite low. Gas fees on layer one are low, which means gas fees on L2s are low and L2s are scaling in their own ways as well, independent of layer one. But we still want to get that shit. We still want to get that on the network because that future proofs, you know, the, the scalability of ethereum for quite a while.
00:12:03.056 - 00:12:27.632, Speaker A: And when the demand does come back and we do have a lot of new users coming back, they're not going to have to contend with Ethereum, layer one's exorbitant gas fees because the gas fees are going to go back up. Definitely. I have no doubt about that. Just because people are on L2s instead of layer ones doesn't mean there's still not going to be plenty of people on layer one. There is still like $50 billion of TVL even at these depressed prices on layer one. So there's still a ton ton of, of activity on there. And so the fees are gonna go back up.
00:12:27.632 - 00:13:15.156, Speaker A: But because we have these L2s live and they have ecosystems built out as well, they're going to be the preferred place for people to go that don't want to or don't have the ability to pay those high gas fees and nor should they have to pay those high gas fees. So I'm obviously looking forward to both of these for completely different reasons. I'm looking forward to withdrawals because I want us to close that loop and also enable people to withdraw from somewhere where they're not comfortable staking anymore and go stake with another provider. Maybe they want, maybe they staked with Lido originally, now they want to change to rocket pool, because when they stake with Lido, rocker pool wasn't out, right. And maybe they don't want to take that, that haircut from selling the St, which isn't actually too bad these days. But maybe they would just rather withdraw everything that they have from the beginning chain itself. Or maybe they staked with Coinbase and want to go to rocket pool.
00:13:15.156 - 00:13:46.246, Speaker A: Or maybe they stacked enough ETH during the bear market that they want to become a solo staker now. And originally they put their Ethan to Coinbase. Maybe they put like 20 ETH into Coinbase because that's all they had at the time. And then they were able to stack more and now they have the 32 ETH necessary to solo stake and then they're going to go do that. Or maybe people have just seen all the OFAC staff and being like, holy shit, like I need to get my ETH off these centralized places because it's at risk of, of social slashing. It's a bigger risk than going with, you know, a solo staker or a decentralized pool such as rocket pool. So we're going to see that.
00:13:46.246 - 00:14:24.054, Speaker A: Great reshuffling with withdrawals, but I'm, I definitely want to see that as soon as possible. And obviously 4844 proto dank sharding speaks for itself at this point because I've spoken about it so many times. But we need that as well to go into the network to future proof ethereum scalability for, I guess, I don't know how long it would future proof us for. It just depends on the kind of demand that we get and the kind of applications that get built. But it does give us, you know, at least one to two years, I would say, at least. And it shifts the scalability to, to L2s from there. So L2s will have a lot of the work that they're doing on their own to upgrade their own networks.
00:14:24.054 - 00:14:55.522, Speaker A: And that would feed into the upgrades they get from 4844 as well. All right, so Ethereum pools dot in for. Put out another great tweet thread today. They said some research on Ethereum multi block mev. How likely is, is it for a pool controlling p percent of the validators to propose k conservative blocks in an epoch? So that is, Kraken will propose five consecutive blocks once a month on average, but don't trust the random tweet. More info. So there's a thread here about this, and I like where they said, but basically sorry.
00:14:55.522 - 00:15:29.004, Speaker A: I like the table that they've got here where they show what the chances are. And I've spoken about multi block mev before. As you guys know, in proof of stake, the next block proposal is known. So everyone on the network, or everyone viewing the network, can know who the next proposer is. And if you know that you're going to propose consecutive blocks, well, then you can do multi block mev. So, for example, within an epoch, all 32 block proposes are known in advanced. And this is new improve of stake, and enables new ways of Mev, of course, such as manipulating twap or time weighted average price oracles.
00:15:29.004 - 00:16:16.174, Speaker A: Now, if you are a coinbase or a kraken or someone, some entity that has a lot of stake, and say you see within those 32 block proposes that you have a window where you are the next five block proposers, well, you could technically come up with a strategy that takes advantage of that with multiblock mev. And essentially you can control which transactions go into which blocks in those five blocks in order to get the most mev profit possible out of that. Now, in practice, we haven't seen this yet. This thread goes through that which you can. I'll link it in the YouTube description below for you to check out. In practice, we haven't seen any of this right now, and you have to be quite a large entity to actually, to actually propose blocks like that consecutively. I mean, you basically have to be one of the top ones here, Coinbase, Kraken or Binance.
00:16:16.174 - 00:16:58.856, Speaker A: And then after that, it's kind of very hard because Lido, even though Lido has 30% of the network, or a little bit under 30% actually. Right now, the operators are who are proposing the blocks. Lido themselves isn't a monolithic operator. They have those 28, 29, I think it's actually up to 30 now operators that are proposing the blocks. So unless they collude to do something, because these, these operators are independent, unless they collude, it's not going to happen under Lido. But when it is a single entity like Coinbase, Kraken, Binance and a few of the others on this list, then of course it becomes more of an issue. But in saying that, like we only at the start of a potential multi block mev world, and I don't think there's many people out there who actually know what strategies to run in order to do this.
00:16:58.856 - 00:17:32.574, Speaker A: And you can imagine if a coinbase or a kraken or a binance starts doing this, they're gonna get publicly shamed. For it. And maybe they're gonna lose stake. So maybe it's actually in their best interest to not do any multi block mev, even though the profits would be larger. And just because that could potentially lead to an outflow of ETH staked on their platform, and then obviously less fees for the ETH that they already have staked with them, and that could net out to actually a negative, and the negative press would be pretty bad for them as well. So there are things here that prevent them from doing this, but we shouldn't just rely on that. And that's why we're obviously working a lot of ways to minimize Mev as much as possible.
00:17:32.574 - 00:18:23.938, Speaker A: And we're obviously working on SSLe so that you basically don't know who the next block proposers are going to be in the beacon chain, which is very important, I guess, not just for meV, but also for DOS risks. So for example, if you know that binance, Kraken, coinbase or whatever are going to propose the next block or the next x amount of blocks, you can potentially dos them and prevent them from doing that. So there's griefing attacks and things like that. Obviously it's quite difficult, but still, we wanna, the way we operate in Ethereum is we always think of like the worst case scenarios and build around that. That's the strength of Ethereum is that, and that's why things take so long, is because we don't wanna just settle for the maybe scenario, right? We wanna settle for the, okay, this is the worst case scenario. And this, you know, there's 100% chance of this happening. How do we prepare for it? Because at the end of the day, even if the chance of it happening is basically 0%, it doesn't matter.
00:18:23.938 - 00:19:05.490, Speaker A: We need to go in with the assumption that there is 100% chance of this happening at some point in the next, you know, ten, 2000 years, like Ethereum is trying to build itself to be a network that is resilient for centuries, for thousands of years potentially, right, like that. That is literally what we're building, Ethereum as a network that is resilient for that long. And in that world, we have to consider all of these possibilities and work to, to minimize the risk of them happening or to eliminate them altogether. So that's what I've always loved about Ethereum, and I think that we've still got that ethos and we're still building with that in mind. And I don't think that's going to change. I really do think that everyone on the core protocol side of things, understands this and wants to build for that. So that's really promising.
00:19:05.490 - 00:19:46.628, Speaker A: But I'll link this Ethereum pools info thread in the YouTube description below and you can go check that one out. All right. So speaking of Ethereum core development, Francesco here has published a new post on the ETH research forum called Viewmerge as a replacement for proposer boost. Now, this is a long and technical post here, but you may be familiar with proposal boost, which was basically one of those fixes that was put in place in order to prevent manipulation of the fork choice rule of a theory and cause the chain to kind of like split up and things like that. So this is a proposal called view merge that would replace proposal boost. And it seems pretty promising from my reading. This thread does a, does a good job of breaking it down and how it all works.
00:19:46.628 - 00:20:13.556, Speaker A: But I just wanted to put it on your radar because I think it's very important because proposal boost was like more of a band aid solution than a permanent one. And if we can come up with better solutions, then definitely we want to get them into the network. So I'll link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. All right? And no, no, this is, this is different. This isn't core protocol work. So I came across this project today called, man, I'm going to butcher the pronunciation here. It's called arcticium.
00:20:13.556 - 00:20:45.484, Speaker A: Arcticium, I think that's how you say it, which is a fully on chain and permissionless p two p nft marketplace on Starknet. And now they're live on the Starknet girly testnet. So you can check out their 101 article here to learn all about what they're building. But yeah, as I said, I just came across this project today. I don't know much about it, I can't vouch for it or anything like that, but I just wanted to put it on your radar because it's another project that's gone live on Starknet and is obviously live on the testnet right now. But we'll hopefully be live on Mainnet sooner rather than later. So I'll link this in the YouTube description and you can go check it out.
00:20:45.484 - 00:21:12.672, Speaker A: All right. So Aztec announced today that they've recently made an upgrade to the aztec platform that removes a layer of trust, the aztec core team, which is the subsidy contract. So now it allows any party to fund subsidies for bridge transactions and bootstrap volume on Aztec. Take for example, a bridge that supports 50 unit transaction batches. Think of it like a bus with 50 seats which only departs for its destination once the bus is full. On any given day, three things could happen. All 50 seats get filled and the bus leaves.
00:21:12.672 - 00:21:51.986, Speaker A: Yay. Not all 50 seats get filled and people wait for a bit before the rest of the seats get filled. Or someone at some point gets sick of waiting and pays for the whole bus to go down to Ethereum and execute that. Someone in three scenarios could be an individual. The bus service itself and the bus service itself protocols who want their bridges to be performant even before bus seats are selling out, can subsidize regular departures, ensuring timely performance. So previously Aztec did this, did these subsidies for people, but now it seems that a contract has been deployed that allows any EOA, which is just in a normal Ethereum address or contract account to subsidize bridge contracts under a certain set of parameters. Bridge ID subsidy amount committed and bridge contract backstop.
00:21:51.986 - 00:22:31.262, Speaker A: So you can read the thread for full details on this, but this is very cool. I've talked about this before, I think I haven't talked about in a little while now, but basically this thing where we would have teams and projects subsidizing people to bridge into L2s from layer one. Obviously these days it's not as important because layer one fees are quite low. But as I said before, we expect layer one fees to go up again. So when, when that happens, the subsidies are going to be even more important. Now we obviously don't want to just limit this to the teams themselves having to do the subsidies, but anyone can do it and anyone could do it for any reason. I would imagine that projects on these networks would want to do it to encourage users to onboard to their project and subsidy through, through that way.
00:22:31.262 - 00:22:58.400, Speaker A: But as, as, as tech said here, anyone can do this with their, with their, with their tooling, sorry, with the contracts that they've deployed. Now I hope to see this on not just aztec but all the other L2 networks out there. I hope to see some centralized exchanges doing this. That'd be really cool. Not sure what they would get out of that. Maybe they do it and then kind of take a cut. If someone uses a Defi protocol because they have like a front end for it, I'm not sure what it would look like in practice, but they could do it for their users.
00:22:58.400 - 00:23:33.146, Speaker A: So, but they would want to obviously even be making money out of it because subsidizing means they're at a net loss if they're not making money out of it in some way. But the L2s are definitely motivated to get people into the ecosystem, because in the long run, it makes them money. It's kind of like how PayPal originally did that thing where they gave, I can't remember the exact amount. It was like ten or $15 to all people that signed up for a new account. And it's kind of like how banks do teaser rates and things like that. So that's just to get customers in the door. And obviously you don't expect 100% of the customers to stick around, but the percentage that do stick around make up for the ones that don't over the lifetime of their usage of the platform.
00:23:33.146 - 00:24:23.050, Speaker A: So the same is true for defi apps, L2s, whoever it is, subsidies can work if done correctly. All right, so an announcement here from ETH limo today. So the ETH Limo Ens gateway now supports Arweave and IPFs swarm content hashes. Users can now utilize every ENs compatible storage layer, IPFs, IPNs, Swarm, Skynet, and Arweave. This is very cool. I think obviously this is much more important these days than it's been in the past, especially in the age of the OFAC sanctions on toneticache and also these other regulatory things that have been coming down the pipeline lately. So, yeah, I always want to encourage projects that are doing this because at the end of the day, every front end in defi should be on these platforms, should be on one of these platforms at least, to fight off against any centralization concerns.
00:24:23.050 - 00:24:56.304, Speaker A: So great job here from ETH limo today. All right, last up here, before I go into a bullish rant, you guys are going to be excited about this one. Just a shout out to ETH global here, who was doing an optimism summit, which has been, I believe it's already finished, that you can go view on. But there's a lot of people talking as part of this summit, or people that did talk as part of this summit around all things optimism, but also ethereum layer one, the modular op stack, everything around that. So I just wanted to give a shout out to this. You guys can go give it a view. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:24:56.304 - 00:25:31.284, Speaker A: But finally, to end off today's episode and to get you bullish into the weekend, I have a tweet thread that I put out just before talking about a week since the merge and how that's affected ETH issuance. So it's been a little over a week since the merge, right? If Ethereum was still on proof of work, the supply of ETH would have gone up by about 100,000 and this is factoring in the burn as well. But because we're obviously on proof of stake the supply of ETH has only gone up by 5000. This is a 95% reduction in net ETH issuance. Obviously including the burn. As I mentioned. That is more than the triple Harvey.
00:25:31.284 - 00:25:48.948, Speaker A: Because the triple harvening only ever accounted for the block reward issuance or the protocol issuance. I should say it didn't factor in the burn. Now this is a 95% reduction with the burn being not deflationary because the gas fees are so low. Right. But this is huge. Like 90. Like think about that for a second.
00:25:48.948 - 00:25:58.414, Speaker A: 95%. Right. That's a massive reduction. Now in further tweets I put numbers to this. Right. Dollar numbers to this. So I said we can extrapolate this out to a year's worth of issuance.
00:25:58.414 - 00:26:25.234, Speaker A: This is, remember this is only one week. So I did, I did a naive math on this and I just times that by 52 weeks it would have been 5.2 million ETH under proof of work. In a year it's only 260,000 ETH under proof of stake. Again this is including the burn in dollar terms at the current price that is $7 billion under proof of work and only $350 million under proof of stake. And again this is over a year period. Guys like this is, this is absolutely massive.
00:26:25.234 - 00:26:39.562, Speaker A: The reduction. Especially when you put a dollar value to it. If we want to go to the all time high and put a dollar value to it. Well what we would need to do is we would go 5.2 million. I didn't do this before but I'll just do it quickly now. Times $5,000 which is around the all time high.
00:26:39.562 - 00:27:01.256, Speaker A: That was $26 billion a year of proof of work issuance. That was needed to be eaten up just to keep the price at flat. Basically just to keep the price flat. We needed even more than that for the price to go up. Right now let's do that. At $5,000. In a proof of stake world of 260,000 times 5000 that's only 1,300,000,000.
00:27:01.256 - 00:27:15.024, Speaker A: So 1.3 billion as opposed to 26 billion. Right. Massive. Massive reduction there. Now I went on and continued and I said I'm going to make you even more bullish. Most of that proof of work issuance was probably dumped by miners since they had to cover operating costs.
00:27:15.024 - 00:27:35.204, Speaker A: And it definitely was. I mean it was not a probably. I don't know why I use the word probably there. It definitely was dumped by miners to cover that, those operating costs. But on top of the operating costs, they also want to take profit for themselves. Right? Like it's not just the, oh, I'm a miner, I'm just going to pay for my operating costs and then keep the, keep the rest of the ETH forever. No, they're going to sell it for profit.
00:27:35.204 - 00:28:18.972, Speaker A: And some mine is even held onto it to stake it, which is even better. But most of the proof of stake issuance after taxes will probably be held restaked since operating costs are significantly lower than proof of work. And I've talked about this a lot on the refill before, you guys know all about this. And then I said in the last tweet, once the market heats up again and average gas prices are back at only 15 gray plus, because that's the current ultrasound barrier, the issuance will be net negative, of course, as more if you stake to the higher gas price. We need to keep ETH deflationary, but more ETH staked is good for the price as well. So. And you get where I'm going with that, right? I've gone through this before, but there is such a beautiful feedback loop here with the way the entire Ethereum monetary policy works, I don't think we're perfect yet.
00:28:18.972 - 00:29:02.532, Speaker A: I do think that obviously the merge and 1559 are the core pieces of its monetary policy. They're probably, there's probably going to be some tweaks to it in the future, specifically around things like capping the maximum amount of active validators on the network at once. So. Aka the maximum amount of ETH that he staked actively on the network at once that's been talked about. I mentioned it before and then I think there's one other thing that I'm forgetting right now, but as it currently stands, this is just stupidly insane. Now, you want, if you want to compare this to something like bitcoin, right? We can go back to our favorite site, money printer dot in fo, which I've got, which I've talked about before. So money printer dot in fo, I believe, factors in the burn as well here.
00:29:02.532 - 00:29:09.276, Speaker A: And. Oh, man, if you're. Yeah. Theorem is not on this at the moment. Damn. Okay. I saw it the other day, so I can, I can say what it is.
00:29:09.276 - 00:29:25.528, Speaker A: So we can look at the issuance of, of bitcoin right now. Daily issuance, $17.6 million is issued to miners, which has to be sold. Then we can look at Solana, $3.2 million. It's not issued to minors. Issued the stakers, but still it's, it's quite a lot.
00:29:25.528 - 00:29:53.502, Speaker A: But avalanche, 1.1 million. And these Aslan and Avalanche both have much lower market caps than bitcoin and ethereum as well. Right? So if you kind of factor that into it as well, it's actually on a market cap basis, a lot of issuance. And then I think ETH fell actually under Dogecoin. Dogecoin is currently paying $800,000 a day to secure its network. Now I think Ethereum was just under 800,000, including the burn at around 0.17%
00:29:53.502 - 00:30:20.018, Speaker A: issuance rate. That is insane. Like, I mean that is a crazy amount. That's like 20 times less than bitcoin, guys. And so I know people have looked at the price recently, especially the e BTC ratio, and thought to themselves, well, if it's so bullish, why did ETH BTC go down? Because short term is irrelevant. Short term is always dictated by short term narratives and traders. The medium to long term is where you're going to see the effect of this issue introduction play out.
00:30:20.018 - 00:30:57.358, Speaker A: And I've gone through this plenty of times before and I sound like a broken record at this point, but you're going to see it play out over the longer term. I'm not going to promise you that. I'm not going to guarantee you that, but I truly do believe that these flow changes are going to have an absolutely massive impact demand periods. Because instead of requiring $26 billion a year, right, if it was $5,000 to secure the, sorry. To make up for the minor dumping, we would need a considerable less amount of that. So just naturally because of that, ETH should trade lighter. Like, I mean the math adds up, right? This is.
00:30:57.358 - 00:31:27.038, Speaker A: And the logic adds up. This is not something where I'm living in fantasy land and I'm making up fantasy things. If the demand is there, like imagine if the demand was, I think I mentioned this yesterday, the man, the demand doesn't even have to be anywhere near the same as it was during last year or the year before. Well, I guess probably last year is better. It can be less than it was then and he should trade light up just based on that massive change in the flows there. So hopefully that little rant there has made you bullish into the weekend. I know I am.
00:31:27.038 - 00:31:48.730, Speaker A: I mean you, you guys know I'm still buying ETH. Like, especially at these prices where I feel like it's a bargain. Bim prices, can it go lower? Of course it can. The macro environment still really shitty. We don't know what's going to happen with inflation and the Fed and things like that. Everyone has their own opinion on it. My personal opinion is generally that I think we're over the worst of it, just from what I can see.
00:31:48.730 - 00:32:25.710, Speaker A: But I'm not a macro expert. I've got absolutely no idea when it comes to that sorts of stuff. But from what I've read and the experts that I have read and, and from what I'm seeing, it does seem like we're over the worst of both inflation, at least in the US, and also the, I guess, shock from the rates going up. I think everyone expects the rates to go up for a little bit now. I don't think anyone expects any shock rate rises unless inflation is still really high. But from what I've seen, the next month's inflation numbers in the US should be less than last month and the months before, and the trend is still down on it as well. But as I said, not an expert on macro environment.
00:32:25.710 - 00:33:09.508, Speaker A: And because of that, I actually don't really think about that too much when it comes to my ETH purchases. I purchase ETH, or like crypto generally on a relative basis to where it is. I think right now, as I've mentioned plenty of times, the market, and just crypto in general is in the period that we were in in 2019 where everything's dead. Sentiments in the shitter, everyone's just like accepted the reality of the situation. But I think in those situations lies the most opportunity. Just like when I was selling stuff last year, I was thinking to myself, wow, okay, like, the market's stupid right now, the amount of money coming in, but the amount of money that needs to keep coming in to keep the prices up at these sustained levels, not just for proof of work coins, but all these other coins that were vesting out all these tokens. When I did the math on that, I was just like, okay, this is absolutely crazy.
00:33:09.508 - 00:33:40.418, Speaker A: Sentiment was crazy. It felt like everyone was getting rich. Like in those kind of scenarios, if you've been around for three cycles now, like I have, you look at that and you're like, okay, I get why people get kind of caught up in this, but I've been to this before. So I'm gonna rely on my past self's lessons to apply that to future, to the future me and to the current me, and make sure I play defensively here. Don't feel bad if you don't know how to do that, especially if you've only been in it for one cycle. As I've said, to you guys before. In 2013 was my first cycle.
00:33:40.418 - 00:34:08.908, Speaker A: I traded away most of the bitcoin that I bought and then I sold in 2014 during the bear market because I was a noob. Like, I had no idea what I was doing. I'm pretty sure, if I remember correctly, I lost, like, 90% of what I put in during that time, just over trading and then selling it at a loss and just doing all sorts of stupid stuff. And then my second cycle was the 2017 one. I learned from the lessons of 2013. My biggest lesson was not to leave during the bear market. And then this cycle was where I got most of the reward from.
00:34:08.908 - 00:34:25.012, Speaker A: From my time in crypto. And as, like, that's a long time, guys. That's like eight years, right? Not eight, nine years since then that I've had to learn those lessons. So I think that you have to learn it yourself. No one can really teach you those sorts of things. You can learn from other people. But there's a difference between knowledge and wisdom.
00:34:25.012 - 00:34:44.838, Speaker A: Wisdom is definitely based on experiences. Knowledge is just based on, obviously, me telling you this and other people telling you this and telling that. Basically, they're telling you their experiences. But unless you've experienced it yourself, there's a very big disconnect there. So I know that there is a mix of people who watch the show, listen to the show. You're maybe a long term, you know, two to three cycles. Maybe you've only been through one.
00:34:44.838 - 00:35:07.458, Speaker A: Whatever you are, like, it's always the same story. There are bare periods, there are bull periods. You just need to know how to handle each of them. Regardless of the amount of money you have put into crypto or the amount of money you've made from crypto, it doesn't matter like that. That's actually shouldn't factor into it at all. What factors into it is knowing how to handle the cycles and knowing how to profit from them. But I'm not giving trading investment advice on this channel.
00:35:07.458 - 00:35:33.396, Speaker A: All I'm trying to do is say that you need to stick around, you need to learn for yourself, you need to think for yourself, and you need to be prepared for a variety of different outcomes. And it never hurts to take profit. Guys, like, honestly, I know it might be hard during bull markets to do that. I know that you may regret it because the price is going up, but the bigger regret is not taking any profit and then losing, because maybe you get scared in the bear market and sell, and you're like, holy shit. Like, everything seems really, really bad right now. I've got to sell, sell, sell. Right.
00:35:33.396 - 00:35:50.312, Speaker A: Like, I've been through this. I know how that feels. It's not a good feeling. So just that, a little bit of advice going into the weekend, a little bit of bullishness on ETH going into the weekend. But on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank you, everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:35:50.312 - 00:35:55.744, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all next week. Thanks, everyone.
