00:00:00.440 - 00:00:38.080, Speaker A: Hello, everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Anthony Susano, and today's the 29 March 2021. Right, everyone, this just happened a couple of hours ago, but this is the biggest news from the last few days. Visa is now settling payments in USDC, the USDC stablecoin on the Ethereum blockchain. Now, you know, if you've been on Twitter before, you've watched this video, you've obviously seen everyone talking about this. So I won't go too deep into, you know, my thoughts around these. For those, you can basically read it in today's Daily Gray newsletter where I talk about how Ethereum is.
00:00:38.080 - 00:01:09.234, Speaker A: Well, I believe it is becoming this kind of like global settlement layer for all types of value. And, you know, these are kind of like adopting it and using USDC. Here is just one more kind of like, I guess, you know, check, check mark there for becoming a settlement layer. So, yeah, I mean, the news I first saw came from the block here. So basically they've got like a summary at the top here and they, you know, got a few quotes from, from, from representative of Visa. What they're actually going to be doing is working with crypto.com as a partner as part of this kind of pilot program.
00:01:09.234 - 00:01:34.030, Speaker A: And it's going to let the crypto firm manage its card, card business now entirely in digital assets. So crypto.com, for those of you don't know, it's a, basically, it's a kind of like, I guess, white glove crypto service. You can go there. They've got like a card, like a Visa card that you can get issued to you. They've got like an exchange and things like that, fiat on ramps and stuff like that. So what this pilot program is actually going to do is going to let crypto.com
00:01:34.030 - 00:02:46.572, Speaker A: settle in USDC on ethereum, instead of just using the kind of like fiat system, right, just using the digital asset system, which is incredibly bullish here, you know, and incredibly, I mean, it's really cool to see right at the end of the day, like really cool to see that visa, such a large global payments company, you know, being at the forefront of this technology now, obviously, visa is not going to be settling, you know, every transaction that crypto.com does to the Ethereum main net, right? I think maybe they'll just start off with settling like once a day or something with like one transaction or whatever to, to the Ethereum main or even a few transactions obviously, if they tried to do like, thousands of thousands, it wouldn't. It wouldn't work. But this begs the question, I mean, a lot of the L2 solutions on Ethereum right now for payments are actually quite far along. You know, we talk about L2 for kind of smart contracts and generalized kind of like smart contracts, like what, what optimistic roll ups are doing with optimism and arbitrum and things like that. But, you know, not much talk is given to, like, the, the payments based kind of roll ups, right? Or the payments based L2s, which are Zksync, which a lot of you would have used in the recent Gitcoin grants round. There is Hermes Network, which went live last week on Mainnet.
00:02:46.572 - 00:03:32.932, Speaker A: There is obviously, you know, other older projects like Raiden. You know, there's a few others out there like omise go, which is now OMG network. And, yeah, I mean, these kind of like, payments networks are just so far along, especially the ZK roll up based ones. And, you know, I mean, ZK sync put out an update, I guess, over the weekend, which I'll read through about their v, like roadmap to v two and things like that, which is, which is really bullish. But, you know, I can see Visa kind of like adopting a L2 solution here, especially on the payment side. You know, I think CK sync is targeting like, 20,000 plus TPS in their upcoming releases, which is absolutely massive, right? I mean, Visa does 40,000 transactions per second, or a bit more than that, I guess, these days, across its entire network, right? This is not just like with crypto.com as a partner.
00:03:32.932 - 00:04:15.992, Speaker A: This is like every single visa kind of transaction across the entire planet, right? So if ZK sync can kind of, I guess, like, spin that 20,000 transactions per second up even higher, which in time, I'm sure they will. And other L2 solutions as well. You know, we can begin servicing visa with the settlement guarantees, the decentralization guarantees, and the security guarantees of the Ethereum main chain, which is really, really bullish. I mean, I wrote in the Daily Gray newsletter today, it's like, just imagine if, you know, in five to ten years, pretty much like most of the traditional finance system is integrated with Ethereum as a settlement layer. And, you know, through L2s, it's paying fees to Ethereum. Now imagine, you know, how much fees are going to be paid in that case. I mean, there's going to be tens of billions, if not hundreds of billions of fees.
00:04:15.992 - 00:04:59.554, Speaker A: And now imagine ERP 1559 being implemented, which it will be obviously, in the, in July this year. But, you know, when that's implemented and then all these hundreds of billions of dollars of fees being paid each year, that's, you know, say 50% of those fees are burned. That's $50 billion being, being burned each year potentially in, you know, over the next few years, which might sound a bit far fetched right now. But if you look at it, you know, Ethereum is already doing like, I guess, what is it, $20 million a day on average, of kind of like fees there. So you take that out to five days, $100 million, take that out to 50 days, a billion then. Yeah, I'm just doing my, my head math right now. You go all the way to 360 days in a year, right.
00:04:59.554 - 00:05:37.992, Speaker A: You know, I'm gonna screw up my math here about seven times from there. So, you know, we're already doing like $7 billion a year in kind of fees here. You know, probably, probably more than that. Maybe my maths off there, but, but something crazy like that, right? So when you take that into account and you take into account that ethereum is still very nascent, right? This is just the fees on, you know, the ETH one chain today. And most of the users are paying these fees, not L2, kind of L2 technologies paying these fees. And then, you know, saying five to ten years, I mean, we're going to have sharding, which is going to add another, essentially another 64 blockchains to, to Ethereum. And all of them could have, like, vibrant fee markets as well.
00:05:37.992 - 00:06:28.462, Speaker A: So, you know, it's not hard to imagine getting up to $100 billion in transaction fees per year paid to the Ethereum main chain predominantly, predominantly from L2s and like, you know, whales that can afford those fees. But, yeah, that's just like, you know, the really bullish kind of situation for ethereum being a settlement layer there. So, yeah, really exciting news here. I mean, it's funny because, like, the market's been flat the past few weeks, right, for ETH, for BTC, there's a bunch of other random stuff that, that kind of like, he's moving. But in terms of like, the big kind of things, like Ethan, BTC, it's been kind of flat. I think news like this is what kind of kick starts the kind of people like to call it like next leg up or like the next kind of like mini bull market sort of thing within the bull market to get us, you know, back to basically all time high on Ethan to go further than that. I mean, I tend to agree with that, because if you think about it, this news only came out a few hours ago.
00:06:28.462 - 00:07:04.254, Speaker A: ETH is already up on the news, and so is bitcoin, because for some reason, the mainstream media just, like, blanket bans saying the word ethereum. They're just all saying bitcoin, which is just like another bizarre thing that I won't, I won't go into a rant about. But it's just the mainstream media coverage of, I mean, crypto. But, like, Ethereum specifically is absolutely garbage. And I suggest you avoid, like, basically all of it, because it just is not accurate. It's like they're purposefully trying to emit kind of like saying ethereum, which I thought was just bizarre. But anyway, outside of that rant, I just think, you know, this news takes time to kind of, like, reverberate throughout the ecosystem.
00:07:04.254 - 00:07:39.268, Speaker A: I think over the next few days, we're going to see this play out more in the markets. But it already started playing out. But we'll see how long that lasts. I'm not entirely sure there's still a chance we don't break out from here. But, you know, I'm feeling good, feeling bullish, you know? And, you know, I was actually thinking about something today. On that note, you know, just before I move on to the next thing, I want to talk about, if you think about it and you think about, like, all the adoption there still is to come, it's not like we're gonna go in reverse, right? It's not like Ethereum is gonna be reverse adopted or like, crypto in general is gonna be reverse adopted. So when you really think about that, you know, it's kind of, like, really hard to be bearish.
00:07:39.268 - 00:08:19.894, Speaker A: Like, if, you know, if you believe Ethereum is gonna, like, you know, I guess, like, lose market share or a theorem is gonna stop innovating or ETH two is gonna stop being built, right? Or any of this stuff, or the merge is never gonna happen or all that stuff. If you believe that, then sure be bearish on Ethereum. But no one believes that, right? No one in Ethereum believes that. Because if you're in Ethereum, you're here for the kind of right, you know, and you believe that this is going to happen and we're going to get to where we want to be. And then just think about how many more people there still are to come into the ecosystem, how many more institutions still have to adopt Ethereum, right? Visa is just the first. I mean, I think Mastercard did something as well, and there's a bunch of other companies that are working with consensus on enterprise stuff, too. And, you know, that takes years to play out because enterprises are notoriously slow.
00:08:19.894 - 00:09:19.958, Speaker A: I mean, I worked in a huge corporate corporation and it was so slow. So if you've never worked in a corporation before, take it from me, it's, it's incredibly slow. So, you know, from that point of view, this pilot program from, from Visa, you know, may, may kind of take two to three years before you get to a point where it's like, you know, any kind of sizable thing where, like, you know, the whole visa kind of like, partner network has access to this sort of stuff, but it's happening, right? The wheels are in motion. So if you believe that this is going to keep happening, this stuff's going to keep coming out, these news is going to keep coming out. There's going to be more adoption here, which I'm sure we all do, then there's zero reason to be bearish, right? You know, even if we go into, say, for some reason, we go into another two year bear market, for whatever reason, say we do it at the end of this year, right? And then, like, 2022 and 2023 are a bear market, which I don't think we will. But just as an example, say that happens, you know, how is that bearish? Like, do you, like, I just don't get how that would be bearish, right. Because, like, yes, we'll lose, you know, some of the speculative mania, whatever.
00:09:19.958 - 00:09:51.770, Speaker A: But there's actually apps on Ethereum now that people are using outside of it. Like, you know, we have all of Defi 2017. We just had icos. So, yeah, I mean, I've spoken about this before. I won't go on a rant here, but just something that was on my mind today about kind of what I see going on in the future and what I see going on in the present with a theorem right now, you know, that the signs are all there. The, the real adoption is happening. And, you know, I think someone on Twitter, I can't remember who said it, but someone on Twitter said, you know, signs of, you know, I guess speculation are indistinguishable from signs of adoption because everyone's saying, oh, this is a top signal.
00:09:51.770 - 00:10:34.690, Speaker A: This is a top signal. Why does no one say, oh, wow, we're actually finally being adopted? Why does everything have to be a top signal? Why can't we just be like, wow, all the things that we've been building for years are actually being adopted, which is the stance I take on it when I see all this crazy nft stuff going on, you know, some of it definitely is in a bubble and just doesn't make any sense. But the overall kind of arc here is that, you know, nfts is a use case that resonates with a lot of people and it is being adopted by a lot of people. And yes, within that there'll be pocket bubbles. But as nfts as a class, right, and not like icos, where icos basically went completely away or rebranded to like, ieos and we have all, we have like balancer liquidity, kind of liquidity sales now, whatever. Right. But icos, as they were in 2017, don't exist today.
00:10:34.690 - 00:10:55.784, Speaker A: I don't think NFTs are going to, you know, not exist from, from how they are today. They're just going to, you know, keep improving. We'll be able to value them better. But the actual category itself is here to stay, I think. But, yeah, I'll leave it at that for now on the other visa news here. But yeah, extremely big news, extremely bullish news. And I, you know, can't wait to see more companies adopt Ethereum here.
00:10:55.784 - 00:11:38.326, Speaker A: So in case you missed it, and in case you forgot, I'm now doing a weekly live stream with David from bankless here. So every Friday night us time, every Saturday morning my time, we're going, we are doing basically, I guess, a live stream which is just like whatever comes to mind. We have no agenda for it, nothing. We just talk about the, you know, the most interesting things from the previous kind of week. You know, I think most of this episode was focused on uniswap v three and L2s, like the optimism, delay and things like that. So if you haven't yet, definitely go subscribe and follow all the bankless stuff and keep an eye out for this live stream each week. So I put this tweet out before because I was kind of looking and thinking about the long term of things.
00:11:38.326 - 00:12:00.714, Speaker A: And as I was talking about before the long term adoption of things, and I was kind of thinking to myself, okay, where was ethereum two years ago? Now? Two years ago was March 2019. You know, I mean, it's funny when I think about that, like, 2019 feels like a lifetime ago. But anyway, you know, two years ago, ETH was $140. The stable coin market cap was $3.2 billion. It's like 50, 60, $70 billion something now. It's growing really fast.
00:12:00.714 - 00:12:38.480, Speaker A: East two development was in its very, very early stages. I mean, I think at that point, you know, the research was still, like, very heavily ongoing the development, actually, the client kind of implementations was super early. I can't even remember what teams were around back then. I don't even know if like the leading teams were making any kind of like big efforts back then. I think maybe they were, but like, it was just very, very new. 95% plus of Defi did not exist. You know, if you go to Defi pulse today, the only defi that existed back then on Mainnet, I think, was, was maker and Uniswap and like a bunch of others in some limited capacity.
00:12:38.480 - 00:13:12.858, Speaker A: But Defi as we know it today was just basically, you know, non existent. And the only NFT anyone ever spoke about was cryptokitties. And that wasn't a positive thing to speak about. People would say, oh, you know, cryptokitties clogged the Ethereum network. It means Ethereum can't scale, which is hilarious when you think about the irony of that statement given, you know, the state the Ethereum network is in today in terms of scalability. But anyway, the point of this tweet was that to show that Ethereum has come such a long way in just two years, what is it going to look like in two years from now? Right? Like in two years from now? I mean, I can, I mean, if everything goes to plan, this is what's going to happen. This is why I predict is going to happen.
00:13:12.858 - 00:13:36.720, Speaker A: The merge is going to be done, right. We'll be off proof of work, which means issuance drops like 90%. Like ETH issuance. ERP 1559 will be in, of course, NFT, I mean, sorry, defi is just going to keep exploding, right? I mean, there's no doubt about that. In two years, we're going to have sharding as well on ETH two. So we're going to have even better scalability. The L2 ecosystem is going to be matured to a point where, you know, basically, I think the Ethereum can't scale narrative will be well and truly dead.
00:13:36.720 - 00:14:09.886, Speaker A: High gas fees for end users will be well and truly gone in two years. Right? And when you think about it, cheese isn't, isn't a very long time in normal kind of life, right? But in crypto, you know, a lot can happen in two years and it can feel like a lifetime, essentially, which is, which is why I kind of like, was talking about before, when you kind of like take the long term approach here, you kind of like take the long view of like even the long view, the longest view, like five to ten years. I mean, ten years ago, bitcoin was just like toy. It was. It barely even existed. And now bitcoin is being put on public companies balance sheets. Right.
00:14:09.886 - 00:14:33.988, Speaker A: And. And bitcoin started from essentially nothing like ETH, you know, to an extent, is riding on the coattails of bitcoin. So, you know, from that point of view, that's even more impressive. But, you know, the fact that Ethereum is now where it is, you know, launched in 20, 2015, you know, mid 2015. Sorry. And it's come such a long way in just those kind of, like, I guess, six years there. Just imagine what it's going to be like in five to ten years.
00:14:33.988 - 00:14:56.778, Speaker A: I went through before what I think it's going to be like. But, yeah, we don't even have to wait that long. Two years from now is going to be just absolutely crazy, and we don't even know if there's going to be a new use case. I actually, it was funny, I remember talking to my, my boss when I worked at set, Felix, you know, a while ago now. I think we were in the bear market. So I think it was the end of 2019. I was in the San Francisco visiting them in their offices.
00:14:56.778 - 00:15:17.430, Speaker A: And I basically, we were just, I mean, Felix and a bunch of us, we just. We were just discussing, you know, what. What was going to be the next thing that kicked off, like the ETH bull market. Right. And then, you know, of course I was saying, like, Defi and things like that, and I'll, you know, and I think I was right to an extent. But the conversation also centered around, like, what was going to bring in a lot of mainstream attention. And I thought that was Defi.
00:15:17.430 - 00:15:49.480, Speaker A: But Felix and I think the others were like, well, maybe we don't know. You know, no one predicted icos being a big thing in 2017. Maybe the big thing of the next cycle, which is the one we're currently in, is going to be something totally catch everyone off guard. And I think that was nfTs. So I think they were actually right in saying that because, you know, pretty much everyone, 99% of people in this ecosystem, had no idea NFTs was going to blow up like this. And I actually think the people who were very heavily involved with NFTs already didn't expect it to blow up like this either. I honestly don't think anyone expected this.
00:15:49.480 - 00:16:17.794, Speaker A: Maybe. Maybe someone, some crazy person that was like, you know, you know, super bullish on nfts expected it, but most of us didn't. I didn't even expect this. I mean, I put out a tweet few months, a tweet a few months ago where I said, you know, I think NFTs are going to be the next big thing that are gonna bring a lot of people in. But I didn't expect it to be this fast, man. I didn't expect to see like, you know, people with millions of followers like artists and musicians and all these sorts of stuff doing nfTs. I didn't expect to see people like Mark Cuban come into this ecosystem.
00:16:17.794 - 00:16:46.450, Speaker A: You know, I mean, he's a big fan of NFTs, but being so articulate about these sorts of things just, yeah, just, just crazy. I mean, you know, and that, you know, the funny thing is NFTs has only really been like popular the last few months. You know, I'm talking about two years here. So very hard to predict what's going to happen in two years. We have relative certainty around a bunch of things. As I mentioned before, like a lot of the ETH two stuff, especially the merger, the charting 1559 of course, is only like two, three months away. Layer two, right? The optimism delay.
00:16:46.450 - 00:17:14.204, Speaker A: This is what's funny as well, the optimism delay from March to July. Everyone's going to forget about that in two years. No one's even going to care. Right? Because in two years we're going to have such a vibrant L2 ecosystem that it's just, it's not going to matter that it was delayed by three months. So yeah, they're very, very exciting times ahead for sure. I think paying attention to these things and taking the long term view on anything in this space is always the kind of right move here. So integral, I guess, is a new app.
00:17:14.204 - 00:18:05.500, Speaker A: Integral protocol, sorry, is a new app that's kind of building an exchange, I think, on a theorem here in DeFi. But basically the founder put out a tweet today saying that there's basically a gesture that he did and basically redirected the matching that they got in the git coin round to the in category projects. So whatever category integral protocol was in, which I think maybe was like the development category, maybe the matching that they got as part of the gig round, they're saying, you know, just redistribute it because the, the donations that they got were more than enough to pay for, I guess, the deployments of their contracts, which was 10.9 ETH, and they, they got 56k in donations. So they didn't want to get gritty and they wanted to redirect this. And of course I think they're going to have their own token soon as well, so that makes a lot of sense too. But this is really, really awesome to see.
00:18:05.500 - 00:18:48.330, Speaker A: I mean, I think, I mean, personally I think that any project that already has a token shouldn't have a git coin grant and any project that is heavily funded by VC's or like funds shouldn't have a git coin grant because the Gitcoin grant, the spirit of it is to support kind of like open source work that isn't being monetized in any real way. And like open source media, you know, for example, the Daily Gwey, I mean everything's free here. So, you know, your donations on git coin is really the only kind of like, I guess, money I make from, from what I do here. And that's fine. I mean if I didn't want the other way to be free, it wouldn't be free. But you know, you get my point and there are some other, you know, projects on there that do make revenue but still get donations and that's fine. But I think there has to be a line drawn somewhere.
00:18:48.330 - 00:19:31.544, Speaker A: You know, especially, I mean if you have a token, like especially a token that's valued at like a really high kind of market cap, then it doesn't really make sense for you to raise like 50k from Gitcoin grants. Like that's just like a drop in a bucket for you. So, and you're taking that away, especially during the matching, you're taking that away from others that could use it more than you. So I think this is a really great, great gesture here from, from the founder of Integral here. And I hope more projects do this. I remember, you know, mask book kind of like remove themselves from the matching as well because they have a token which I thought was admirable. But I think going forward in the next matching rounds, I do hope to see way less projects in there that have tokens or a heavily vc funded because I just don't think it fits in with the spirit of what gitcoin is trying to be.
00:19:31.544 - 00:20:03.224, Speaker A: And I don't think Gwen should police this either because they are not meant to be the arbiters here. The arbiters are meant to be the donate the donors, people who want to donate to different projects. So. Yeah, but I do think we can get to a point, I mean we are pretty much like at a point now where like the community is calling this out and people are reacting to it. It's not really a public shaming, I guess it's more like a, you know, public putting the spotlight on it sort of thing. Because no one's really being shamed for it yet. Maybe they will be in the future because they refuse to take away their grant or kind of give up on the matching here.
00:20:03.224 - 00:20:35.454, Speaker A: But, yeah, definitely really cool to see here from, from integral. So a friendly reminder here from loop ring. If you haven't onboarded to their kind of L2 exchange yet at 100 way gas price, it only costs $10 to deposit your ETH onto loop rings, L2 here. So if you haven't done so yet, definitely go to exchange loopring IO and do this. And I think, you know, I mean, I've talked about this before. This is obviously, like, not the ideal onboarding experience. You know, still having to pay fees to deposit your ethnic into l two.
00:20:35.454 - 00:21:13.322, Speaker A: And obviously it's going to be more deposit tokens in, and then if you run out of funds, you have to transfer more funds in, which costs another gas fee. I think the future of onboarding to L2 really is like fiat on ramps, centralized exchange on ramps, and batched onboarding, where everyone can batch together their funds in a trustless smart contract. And that smart contract's only job is to kind of pay the fee to onboard onto, you know, loop ring or a L2, for example, and then disperse those funds to the rightful wallets, which is. Which can be done. You know, it's not something that it needs to be kind of invented. It can be done today. It's just not being done yet because we're not there yet, I think.
00:21:13.322 - 00:21:40.766, Speaker A: But, yeah, friendly reminder there from loopring. So I put out this tweet today about proof of stakes, and I basically said it's 2021, and people are still conflating Ethereum proof of stake with delegated proof of stake, which is alternatively known as deposit. So Ethereum's proof of stake is special. It's very special. It's special because of the fact that it is extremely novel. It is a complete marvel of engineering. It is something that's never been done before.
00:21:40.766 - 00:22:00.604, Speaker A: And it was built from the ground up with decentralization and security at the forefront. And it was built in such a way that it didn't kind of, like, compromise on these ideals at all. There was no compromise. There was no shortcuts. And because of this, it took a long time. I mean, it took like six years since, since it was first talked about to get to a main net. And we're still not totally there.
00:22:00.604 - 00:22:33.612, Speaker A: I mean, we still have, you know, ETH one and ETH two being split networks. But we do have a working kind of proof of stake network that has hundreds of thousands of validate, I think like over 100,000 validators, 3.7 million ETH and, you know, is working correctly, slashing when it needs to slash. You know, we don't have too much centralization in stake maybe just yet, but still, it's working incredibly well. The hardware requirements are very small. I mean, the most expensive requirement is just having that 32 ETH. And, you know, if you're an ethereum og, you were stacking lots of ETH during 2018 and 2019.
00:22:33.612 - 00:23:02.198, Speaker A: So you probably have that and more at this point. Right? So that's even better because we have so many ethereum OG staking as well, who are very ideologically aligned. But anyway, we shouldn't, we don't have to rely on ideology to kind of secure these networks. And Ethereum proof of stake does not rely on ideology. It relies on robust incentives and relies on a very novel consensus mechanism here. Whereas depos or delegated proof of stake, on the other hand, is not this at all. It is the complete opposite of this.
00:23:02.198 - 00:23:43.278, Speaker A: I would go as far as to say that dpos is not decentralized at all in any way. And basically most of the quote unquote ethereum killers or other chains that claim to be more scalable are using some flavor of delegated proof of stake. Now, if you have been around for a while, you know what happened with EOS. EOS was delegated proof of stake. 21 super nodes as their nodes as. And they're called super nodes because the only people that can run the nodes in depos network are those that can afford to run the extremely expensive hardware because it extremely, extremely expensive to run, to store all the data to run the node itself because it's very demanding on your hardware. And there's basically no way for an individual to become a validator.
00:23:43.278 - 00:24:08.314, Speaker A: They have to be voted in. So it was a plutocracy as well. But what ended up happening with EOS is it turned into a cartel where a bunch of, I think predominantly in Asia, a bunch of the nodes there got together and said, well, we'll do this if you do that, and we'll do that if you do this. So it never was 21 individuals, right? It was more like maybe two or three. And, you know, at this point it's probably more like one. Like if I had to, if I had to guess here. So, you know, that completely failed.
00:24:08.314 - 00:24:50.032, Speaker A: Now, there are other networks that also do this out there. There's alpos and npos. I think Polkadot's using npos, I don't know, like the details of what they've changed, you know, using just a straight depos system is of course incredibly centralized, but there are flavors that you can make that make it a little bit more decentralized. But still, I don't like deposit all. I think it just completely goes against what we're trying to build here because I think, I believe, and I truly believe that everyone should be able to, you know, run a node and they should be able to validate the network as well. And with Ethereum's privilege stake, you can. And that's, I guess, like a major reason why people are so bullish on, on a theorems proof of stake mechanism as opposed to others.
00:24:50.032 - 00:25:22.654, Speaker A: And I really wish people would stop conflating these two because there's just, I guess there's, there's just no comparison at this point. Right? You cannot compare something that is basically centralized to something that is incredibly decentralized from day one and has been built in such a way to keep it like that. So, yeah, I mean, for those of you who maybe have been confused about these conversations, hopefully I've cleared that up for you. Maybe I'll do like kind of a video on this eventually. I know I say that about a lot of things. I have to find the time to do it. It's just hard with, with the ecosystem right now.
00:25:22.654 - 00:25:55.408, Speaker A: But yeah, in general, I think, you know, if you can, you know, stake, and I've said this before, stake on your own, stake on your own hardware. But if you're waiting because you don't have 32, Ethan, you're waiting. Something like rocket pool for decentralized staking. That's definitely an option as well because, you know, rocket pool lets you stake without the 32 ETH kind of minimum, which is pretty big barrier now. I mean, I can't sugarcoat this. So that's like 60,000 or more dollars at this point to basically, you know, set up one validator. And that's just the way it, it is really.
00:25:55.408 - 00:26:25.080, Speaker A: I mean, I don't think we're ever going to lower that minimum from 32 e to something else. But these solutions like rocket pool, should help there. So, yeah, just, just a bit of, I guess, like knowledge throwing out, thrown at you there. And on that note, I put out this tweet saying the two things I'm most excited about are the l two scaling and the ETH one to ETH two merge. Now, I mean, I won't spend too long on this, but basically I believe these two things are the most critical things for Ethereum to do. If we don't scale via L2, ethereum will die. I mean, I think that's the case.
00:26:25.080 - 00:26:58.862, Speaker A: Ethereum will die over time, will lose market share. People will get sick of it. Even the people who are paying the fees today and are fine with it, they'll eventually get sick with sick of it, and then the ecosystem will move on to somewhere else and we won't get any new users. So if we, if l two does not happen, ethereum in the long run will die. I mean, that's just, I mean, I believe that's guaranteed. On the positive note, I do not believe that Ethereum is not going to scale. I strongly believe with everything that we're going to scale very soon and we already are scaling and that, you know, the high gas fees are going to be a thing of the past very soon, and then the merger.
00:26:58.862 - 00:27:28.192, Speaker A: I mean, I don't hate proof of work, but there is a coming wave that a lot of people are underestimating about. You know, how much attacks proof of work is going to, to get now and how much attack is going to come under from not just individuals, but nation states or, you know, environmental organizations. It's going to be very bad. This is one war that I think bitcoin is going to have a very tough time fighting. And I'm happy for bitcoin to fight that war. I don't want a theorem in the middle of it. I want a theorem on proof of stake.
00:27:28.192 - 00:27:47.498, Speaker A: I want to get rid of proof of work for, for that reason and many others. Um, but we have to do it ASap. And I think we're going to, I mean, obviously the merge is being prioritized right now. Everyone wants it. I think it happening within the next, you know, few months. I mean, towards the end of this year, early next year is very likely. So I'm definitely very, very excited for that.
00:27:47.498 - 00:28:14.816, Speaker A: And those are the two most critical things right now in the Ethereum ecosystem, I believe so. I spoke about before how Zksync put out this 2.0 roadmap update here. I guess the highlights, as I said, were the fact that they can get to 21, 20,000 plus TPs here. The biggest highlight was them saying that they're going to be bringing out, I guess, generalized VM on, on their ZK kind of roll up technology. Now. This is essentially what optimistic roll ups do.
00:28:14.816 - 00:28:45.450, Speaker A: As I explained before, being able to put like all types of apps on a L2. Now, that's been a kind of limitation of, I guess, ZK roll ups at this point, but ZK sync or matter labs, the team behind ZK sync acclaiming, they're going to be able to do this very soon. I think they're going to be able to do this, I think was may, maybe. I can't remember where I saw the date here, but, yeah, I mean, this will be linked in the description. You can go read it yourself. But, yeah, I mean, here we go. May 2021 is the timeline and then main net.
00:28:45.450 - 00:29:10.018, Speaker A: Okay, so that was testing. That main net is August 2021. I mean, it's funny because I think arbitrary is launching in April. And then, you know, obviously, we're gonna have, I guess, optimism in July, hopefully, and then this in August. But in the meantime, we also gonna have a lot of the stuff coming out of starkware, too. And they have always got big stuff, you know, in the works. So the next kind of like three or four months in the L2 ecosystem is gonna be wild.
00:29:10.018 - 00:29:29.174, Speaker A: Absolutely wild. So, I mean, super excited for that and, you know, super excited for ZK sync building here. I mean, I used it on L2 with git coin as well. Very seamless and very nice experience here. So I put out this tweet. I'm talking about a lot of my tweets I put out lately. But anyway, I thought this was interesting.
00:29:29.174 - 00:29:50.288, Speaker A: I just wanted to make one note here. So this tweet was basically going over ETH versatility as an asset and why it's, like really awesome. And, you know, I mean, I list all the reasons here. I won't read them all out, but basically, on top of all of this, if you think about it, all you need to get started on Ethereum is ETH. You don't need anything else. You can get ETH from an exchange. Someone can send you ETH whatever.
00:29:50.288 - 00:30:17.136, Speaker A: And then with that ETH, you can do whatever you want. You have ETH to pay the gas fees. You can go on uniswap or whatever or whatever. Dex, you want to go on trade that ETH for whatever token you want to trade it for. And there's relatively liquid pools for basically everything at this point, right? You can go use it as collateral within money markets and borrow stable coins against it. You can use it as money in the NFT economy. You can just hold it and, you know, it can appreciate, and you can make money like that.
00:30:17.136 - 00:30:48.564, Speaker A: You can do all of this with just ETH, which is amazing, right? I mean, you can't do this with just an ERC 20 token because you need to pay gas fees. Right. And a lot of arc 20 tokens don't have liquid pairs like maybe stable coins do. But you know, you still need ETH for gas fees. So it really just is easier to just have ETH, right? Have ETH at all times, have it in your wallet, you know, and just use that ETH for everything that you want to use it for. So I mean, that, that was really cool and something that I figured I'd highlight on today's. On today's episode.
00:30:48.564 - 00:31:32.474, Speaker A: But yeah. And I can't wait to see what other kind of use cases we think of here and what other use cases we come up with here. I think there's plenty that we haven't even kind of like, I guess, delved into yet that are going to be coming out over the next few months or maybe even years. So Tim Bico published the first all core devs, I guess, recap here, update zero zero one. Now what this is, is basically a text update similar to his AIP 1559 updates where he gives a TLDR on what's happening in the all core devs world and then basically goes into detail here. So this update covered the Berlin network upgrade, which is going live next month. Sorry, next month? Yeah, next month on the Ethereum mainnet London, going live in July.
00:31:32.474 - 00:31:56.924, Speaker A: And then Shanghai is still being discussed. There is a discussion whether the Shanghai upgrade will be the merger or, or if it will be a bunch of other different eips. I think at this point we're leaning towards it being the merger. So yeah, that's gonna be really exciting. But if you haven't checked out this update yet, it's a really great one to keep tabs on. He's gonna keep doing these. And this is kind of like how you can keep tabs on what's happening more specifically in the ETH one world, you know, for now.
00:31:56.924 - 00:32:45.306, Speaker A: And then I'm sure it'll get merged with the ETH two stuff once the ETH one to ETH two merger goes through. All right, so last up here we have Sushiswap releasing cashy lending and margin trading on Sushiswap's Bento box. Now basically what Bento box is essentially a way for different apps to be built in. I guess like, I guess the Bento box is like a box in real life. I mean, the different apps are being built within this ecosystem where you can basically pull the capital together, reduce gas fees for users, and have like a mini, kind of like sushi ecosystem within itself here. Now what the. I guess cashy lending and margin trading kind of app does here is, you know, in the name, right, you can lend out your assets, you can do margin margin trading because of that on the Sushiswap platform.
00:32:45.306 - 00:33:17.490, Speaker A: And this is the first app as part of the Bento box release. There's a bunch of markets here already, like, you know, for different sushi LP tokens. Obviously, all the most popular ones are going to be here. And this is, I mean, as I said, this is just the first kind of release here. And as more releases come into, I guess, the Bento box ecosystem, there's going to be more, I guess, opportunities to do like kind of cross Bento Defi and, you know, doing it with cheaper transactions and kind of things like that as well. So, yeah, really cool update here from Sushiswap. Definitely go recommend checking it out.
00:33:17.490 - 00:33:32.314, Speaker A: It'll be linked in the YouTube description. And yeah, I think that is it for today. A bit of a long one today, but thank you everyone, for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give the video a thumbs up. Join the Discord channel, subscribe to the newsletter and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
