00:00:00.240 - 00:00:30.990, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Grey Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, and this is the 3 May 2023. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So, apologies for the mess behind me. Actually, before we get into it, I have a new display cabinet coming or being delivered tomorrow, so the room that I'm in, my usual study, is a mess right now, so apologies for that, but it'll be all good by tomorrow. Anyway, moving on from that to the news of the last 24 hours. So a big piece of news out from Coinbase, and we knew this was coming, but they've officially announced it now.
00:00:30.990 - 00:01:28.320, Speaker A: So they've launched something called the Coinbase International Exchange, which is based out of Bermuda and will begin by offering BTC and ETH perpetual futures settled in USDC with up to five times leverage to institutional clients in eligible jurisdictions outside of the US. Now, launching a, you know, futures platform, derivatives platform is nothing new in crypto. There are plenty of exchanges that offer that and have offered that in the past. Some are still around, some have gone bust, some have lost a lot of market share due to various different reasons. And the thing about a derivatives exchange is that they're normally quite heavily regulated, right? In tradfi, they are very heavily regulated, but within crypto, there is no real guidance on it. And I don't know of any us based derivative crypto exchanges that offer derivatives to us investors. There are definitely tradfi platforms that offer crypto derivatives to investors, but not crypto companies from what I can tell.
00:01:28.320 - 00:02:14.570, Speaker A: And someone please correct me on that. But the reason why is because there's no clear guidance, right? There's no clear guidance on what regulations they have to abide by, what rules they have to abide by, what laws. And that goes back to everything that I've been saying and that you've been seeing around the SEC and other regulatory bodies in the US. So of course, Coinbase wasn't just going to sit on its laurels and let its competition continue to eat its lunch. It said, well, let's look into launching our international, or our kind of like futures or derivatives exchange in on an offshore entity, as an offshore entity, which is what they've done. They are based out of, this is based out of Bermuda, and is also not available to people in the US, which is just kind of insane, right? Land of the free, home of the brave, as they say. Not really anymore, especially not for crypto, which is just very unfortunate.
00:02:14.570 - 00:02:37.962, Speaker A: You know, I talk about the US a lot on the. On the podcast. Yes. The US isn't a major part, or, sorry, is. Is a. Is a major part of crypto, but it's not the only kind of part of crypto. Obviously there are huge swathes, people in other countries around the world that are involved in crypto, but I think within the US, we're not seeing something except maybe China, but even China's gotten a lot better with this.
00:02:37.962 - 00:03:03.880, Speaker A: But we're not seeing this kind of like regulatory harshness that we've seen in the US, in any other jurisdictions that I can think of, or at least any of the other popular jurisdictions. Right. Europe is being a lot friendlier. The UK is being a lot friendlier. Australia is definitely being friendlier, at least for now. Things can change, of course, but from what I've seen for now, you know, it's all well and good right now. And even, as I said, China, particularly Hong Kong, seems to be embracing crypto as well.
00:03:03.880 - 00:03:50.942, Speaker A: Whereas in the US, there really does seem to be this. I struggled to call it like a war on crypto. It feels like there are a select few people in positions of great power, particularly politicians and unelected bureaucrats, that just don't want to see crypto succeed for in the US for one reason or another. And of course, due to this, they are pushing this stuff offshore. And to see Coinbase launch their international exchange out of Bermuda, or, sorry, it's launched the derivatives exchange out of Bermuda instead of the US, is a complete and utter failure on the US's part to keep that economic activity within the US. And what's funny is that Coinbase is a US publicly traded company. It is home, it is homegrown in the US by Brian Armstrong and his co founders, and obviously his team over the years.
00:03:50.942 - 00:04:16.174, Speaker A: It was the first crypto company in the US, or at least one of the first, and I believe it's the only one that survived since back in when it was founded. The. And it services millions, if not tens of millions of us based customers. I believe it's. It could be potentially in the hundreds of millions of total customers. And this is just an absolute failure on the part of the US regulators here. But it's, I guess, like an opportunity that Coinbase has taken to launch it elsewhere.
00:04:16.174 - 00:04:53.206, Speaker A: So you can get full details on what this is and how it may or may not apply to you. As I said, it is only open to institutional clients right now. So I'm going to assume, like, pretty much almost all of you are not an institutional client. I'm definitely not, obviously, but I think they're going to be opening this up to more of a retail audience as time goes on. And sorry to my friends in the US, this is not something that you'll probably be ever be able to access, unfortunately, just the way it is. And I say ever. With the assumption that things don't change in the US around crypto, I'm still quite hopeful that over time, the regulatory kind of regime around crypto will change.
00:04:53.206 - 00:05:18.834, Speaker A: I do think it will get a lot friendlier. But as I've mentioned before, the wheels turn very slowly when it comes to regulations and laws. And obviously it follows a lot, a lot of things, like the elections. Like, for example, if the Republicans were to win next year and at the presidential election, I reckon things would change pretty dramatically with crypto. I reckon that Gary Gensler would instantly be fired. Right. It would be replaced with someone that the republican president would choose.
00:05:18.834 - 00:06:03.694, Speaker A: And I, you know, from what I've seen from the Republicans so far in the US, they seem to be a lot friendlier towards crypto than the Democrats are, at least from the, you know, higher positions of power. There are definitely a lot of Democrats that are friendly to crypto, but they are not in those huge positions of power that people like Gary Gensler and Jeanette Yellen and, and Elizabeth Warren are. And that's just the unfortunate kind of position that we find ourselves in, or that the US finds itself in right now. But even if Democrats were to win again next year, even if there wasn't a kind of regime change, I do think it's still going to get better over time. It's just going to be a slow moving beast here. But anyway, you can check out Coinbase's full blog post for details on this. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:06:03.694 - 00:06:24.638, Speaker A: All right, so I'm going to talk a little bit about staking again today. I know it's something I never talk about, right. ETH staking. Who would have guessed? Anthony Cisano talking about eavesdaking again. Well, I'm going to talk about it again because superfizz put out an interesting tweet today about staking, particularly Rockapool. So he said, you can say what you want about Rocker pool, but I'll stand on a few truths. And there's three truths here.
00:06:24.638 - 00:07:12.432, Speaker A: Rockerpool brings more decentralized nodes to Ethereum than any other service. Rockerpool empowers individuals by allowing staking with less than 32 ETH, and Rocker pool has organized a community committed to decentralization now, I want to break down each of these points and not only focus on Rockerpool, but focus on the staking ecosystem more broadly here. So his first point, that Rocketpool brings more decentralized nodes to Ethereum than any other service. This is definitely true right now by far. I mean, every time a new mini pool operator joins, they're spinning up a kind of like full node, right? Spinning up a census layer client, an execution layer client, along with a minipool, which is a, which is a validator, and they are adding to the decentralization of Ethereum. Now, this is not true for other providers, such as let's take lido, for example. They have 30 or so node operators.
00:07:12.432 - 00:08:03.900, Speaker A: And these node operators may or may not be running one or, sorry, more than one execution, sorry, one of one ethereum full node. Some of them probably running multiple for redundancy. But when you think about it, look at the rocket pool node operators here. There's over 2500 node operators. There's 30 lidar operators. So let's say each lidar operator is running ten full nodes for whatever reason, right? They're all independently running ten full nodes, which is kind of not needed, but like, and it would be kind of silly, and I don't think any of them are doing this, but let's for the sake of argument, say that, right? So you 30 node operators, uh, doing 30, right, uh, sorry, running, um, ten full nodes would equal 300 full nodes across those 30 node operators, okay, that's nowhere close to the 2500 node operators that Rockapool has, where each one of them is, uh, you know, almost certainly running their own at least one full node here. And some of them are running definitely more than one.
00:08:03.900 - 00:08:43.594, Speaker A: I mean, I'm a rocket pool node operator and I'm running like four full nodes on my network right now, as you guys know. So from that perspective, rocket pool by far out of anything except maybe solo staking. I uh, brings more full nodes to the Ethereum network than any other staking service, at least right now. Obviously there are other services spinning up and going to come to market that may or may not beat Rocketpool's node operator set. But all in all, as long as it's, it's, it's adding more full nodes to the network and is a decentralized operator, I don't think it even matters who it is. I think what matters is bringing more of those full nodes to the network. Now, supervisor's second point is that Rocketpool empowers individuals by allowing staking with less than 32 ethics.
00:08:43.594 - 00:09:20.414, Speaker A: So there is a key difference here between staking with less than 32 ETH on a, on a centralized exchange or staking with Lidar or something like that. When you're doing that, you're not actually running the validators yourself. You're literally, I mean not literally because it doesn't actually happen like this. But you are, for intensive purposes, delegating your state, delegating your ETH to someone else to run the validator for you. Now this can be done in rocket pool as well, right? You can buy re if you don't need to spin up a mini pool. And with, but, but with lido you buy Ste and that's all you can. Or you deposit Steve into the I sorry, deposit ETH and mint Ste.
00:09:20.414 - 00:09:38.978, Speaker A: But that's all you can do. You can't actually join as a note, right, node operator. You can't actually run a lido operator, at least right now, maybe in the future you can, but you can't become a lido operator in a permissionless fashion right now. Whereas the rocket pool, you can, anyone can become a node operator. You don't need permission from anyone. And it's actually very, very easy to do. And there are multiple ways to do it.
00:09:38.978 - 00:10:12.206, Speaker A: There's lots of documentation. There is a discord to get you, get you started with it and help you with it. So when you have less than 30 tweet, you can stake with rocket pool and spin up a mini pool for eight ETH with a 2.4 ETH bond worth of RPL tokens. And that means you're actually running the software and you are an actual node operator, rather than just buying the lsd, which is totally fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But the whole point here is that you're able to actually run a staking setup, a proper staking setup, without having to have 32 e, which I think is incredibly powerful and incredibly awesome.
00:10:12.206 - 00:10:59.866, Speaker A: And as I said, rocketball isn't the only one a service going to be doing this, but they are right now the biggest, right, and the one that's the, obviously the most well known. Now the third point superfizz talks about is Rockerpool has organized the community committed to decentralization. Now, I think this is the strength of Rockerpool over its competitors. There is no other community maybe besides the Ethereum community that cares about decentralization as much as the rocket pool community does. At least that's my take. I'm not going to say that as an objective truth, but that's from what I've seen happening across the ecosystem every time I look at the rocker pool community, every time I talk to them, I really jowl with them and I really feel like they care about decentralization. Now of course, if you were to draw the Venn diagram of Rockapool, the rockable community and the Ethereum community, it would probably be a circle because they're pretty much the same people.
00:10:59.866 - 00:11:57.422, Speaker A: But that alone is incredibly valuable and an incredible moat for Rockapool because it means it has a committed community, not just to decentralization, but but also to the rocker pool protocol itself. Now again, this doesn't mean that other projects and other protocols can't get their own communities and can't get their own communities that are like rocket pool. But this is the hardest thing to build, right? It's all well and good to build a staking service and you can either fork the contracts of Rockerpool or you can build your own. That's the easy part, building a lasting community of missionaries who actually care about what you're building beyond speculative gains from a pure kind of like mission driven perspective, that is incredibly difficult. And it applies to every project in crypto, not just decentralized staking providers or any kind of staking provider. It applies to every single project. And is really at the heart of my bull case for Ethereum generally is that Ethereum has been able to actually attract that community, whereas a lot of other, pretty much all other layer ones have not been able to do that at this, to this point right now.
00:11:57.422 - 00:12:24.218, Speaker A: So yeah, hopefully that, that kind of gives some more context around how I think about superphys tweet there. And I also just wanted to quickly showcase the rated.net work website. Again, this website is something that I use as kind of like a bible right now to watch the differences in percentage of kind of like network penetration here. As I said, watching it day to day is kind of useless. Even week to week. It doesn't, isn't really going to give you much signal because it won't change very much on, on that front.
00:12:24.218 - 00:13:07.806, Speaker A: But when you look at things like the share of the network of provider of different providers over the long term, it can give you a nice picture here. Now what I want to, what I want to kind of look at here is Kraken. So Kraken's network penetration, I've spoken about this before, was at 7.1% before they started unwinding all the validators that they were forced to by the SEC. Now an important point here is that the SEC only required Kraken to unwind validators that belong to us based retail investors. I am 99% certain. I may be wrong on this one, but I'm pretty certain that this didn't apply to us based institutional or accredited investors, and it does not apply to people outside of the US that are staking with Kraken.
00:13:07.806 - 00:13:43.726, Speaker A: So this, for now, Kraken has gone from 7.1% to 4.46%. That is less than half of the Kraken's valid validator share that they've gone down here. And when I look at this, I'm like, okay, it hasn't actually changed in a few days. So is Kraken done unwinding their validators? I don't actually know if they are, but if they are done, it means that more than half of the stake that was with, that was taken with Kraken did not belong to us retail investors. So that actually gives you an idea of what it looks like on other centralized exchanges as well. You can assume that Binance and Coinbase, you know, Coinbase has 13% market share, Binance has 5.1%.
00:13:43.726 - 00:14:41.700, Speaker A: You can assume it's a similar makeup there where their clients are kind of very heavily skewed towards the kind of like whales and accredited investors, which, honestly, if you were to look at how it plays out with the on chain staking services, isn't a surprise here. So I think that's a pretty clear signal of what the staking makeup looks like and what it probably will continue to look like. But I'm going to keep tabs on this, on Kraken especially, and to see kind of how that number changes there. And that number can obviously also change with the other providers gaining or losing market share. But you would expect kraken to go a lot, a lot lower and a lot quicker if that was still unwinding validators that belong to us based retail investors, which I don't think is the case anymore. But anyway, you can monitor that for yourself if you want, but I'll keep checking on it time to time and let you guys know what I think of it. All right, so I spoke a lot yesterday about Ethereum's credible neutrality and censorship resistance, and why, if you wanted to kill Ethereum, you would attack that part of it.
00:14:41.700 - 00:15:11.286, Speaker A: And it was in context. The context was around redirecting the 1559 burned ETH to funding public goods or something like that. Now, David Hoffman had a tweet which he dmed me about, and he said, hey, like, I thought of this when I was listening to the refill yesterday. You talking about the credible neutrality and all that sorts of stuff. So he starts off this tweet by saying open money systems are public goods. The unit of account of money is a public utility. When EIP 1559 burns ETH, it's growing the value of a very widely distributed public good.
00:15:11.286 - 00:16:16.916, Speaker A: Efe AIP 1559 is a public goods mechanism. So I didn't touch on this yesterday, and this is actually a pretty important and critical topic, but I don't think I touched on it yesterday because I didn't think it was relevant to what I was trying to say yesterday. But it definitely is relevant to what David is saying here and relevant to the overall discussion. So essentially what David is getting at here is that by bestowing monetary and store of value properties upon ETH, from that, it inherits from its censorship resistance, from its decentralization, from its it's credible neutrality. Essentially what we do is we just redirect how to fund public goods. So a pretty easy way of thinking about this is the value of ETH itself, right? Value of the actual asset at the heart of Ethereum. If ETH was worth $80, right, as David states here, how much money would have been donated to public goods versus ETH being worth $4,000, or ETH being worth like almost $2,000 as it is today? The difference is pretty staggering because I remember when ETH was worth $80, the gitcoin grants rounds, for example, were a lot smaller.
00:16:16.916 - 00:17:11.549, Speaker A: There was way less money to, to kind of go around. There was way less people that were able to donate because they didn't have much money and the wealth was just not there, right? So by increasing ETH price, whether it's because of the properties I just spoke about, or because of other things like ETH uses a staking asset or the, you know, the burn itself, right? Whatever, whatever way the ETH price increases, it also increases the funding towards public goods. So this is a credible, new, credibly neutral way of doing this, because all of everyone who wants to hold ETH can hold ETH, and you can buy ETH from thousands of different places around the world and get your hands on it. You can then stake that ethan, earn more ETH for yourself. Right before the merge, you could mine ETH. There was, there were multiple different ways to acquire ethics. Now, by holding, just holding ETH, you are a beneficiary of everything that I've just spoken about in terms of value accrual to ETH.
00:17:11.549 - 00:17:56.400, Speaker A: And also that wealth effect means that if ETH goes up, you have more money to play around with. Now, of course, you can decide what you want to use that money on, but maybe you think, well, okay, maybe I'll use a little bit to fund public goods, because I didn't have this money before, but now I do. So we're basically using ETH as a conduit for all of the kind of wealth creation that happen, a lot of the wealth creation that happens in, in the ethereum ecosystem, and then the people who are holding that ETH get to redirect it to whatever they want to. And a lot of people within the ethereum ecosystem like to redirect, redirect it to public goods. Now, in saying that as well, a good way to think about this from a pure dollars perspective is the Ethereum foundation. So the Ethereum foundation denominates an ETH. They own ETH.
00:17:56.400 - 00:18:53.910, Speaker A: That's all they really own, unless they cash it out for fiat, which they have done a bunch of times. But cashing it out to fiat relies on the ETH price. So if they were to cash out 10,000 ETH at $100, right, that would net them, sorry, 10,008 at $100 would net them a million dollars, right? If I'm doing my math correctly, 10,008th $100. Yes, it would net them a million dollars. Now, if they were to do that now with ETH almost at $2,000, that would net them way more, because ETH would, is 20 times the price, right? That would net them $20 million. So then I have 20 times more money to go towards public goods funding to go towards those grants that they give out, to go towards funding the Ethereum core development and research and all that sorts of stuff. So you can see how by ETH acting as a conduit for the credible neutrality of the Ethereum network, the sensory persistence, 1559, staking whatever else, you know, ETH uses collateral and story value and all that good stuff.
00:18:53.910 - 00:19:44.386, Speaker A: We redirect the value to public goods without having to introduce that subjectivity layer or governance layer on top of Ethereum to that. I spoke about yesterday of why that's undesirable. So hopefully that gives extra context there. And I thank David for putting this tweet out and, and sending it to me in DM's, because it is a very important and critical point to understand, if you want to know why people are so, so against, I guess, like redirecting things to, redirecting things like the burn to public goods, and rather just having ETH act as the conduit in order to redirect the funds downstream from, from there. So yeah, hopefully that's, that gives you extra context there. Moving on to the next update, which is a project that I actually see announced themselves today, or kind of exit stealth today, called nocturne. So nocturne is a new primitive for the Ethereum ecosystem and which they're calling private accounts.
00:19:44.386 - 00:20:44.820, Speaker A: So using account abstraction and zero knowledge proofs, we've built a private account layer that lets users send, receive and transact with their funds, all without exposing their address. And you can check out the docs on how it works. And you can also check out this, this graphic here in the tweet thread. Guys, I'm going to be honest, when I saw this, I was like, holy shit, this is really exciting because you guys know that the two things that I care most about within the Ethereum ecosystem, or seeing, or care most about seeing flourish, is scaling and privacy, and a lot of the time they go hand in hand. But the, and this is awesome because it not only is using account abstraction, it is also using zero knowledge proof primitives to create this private accounts primitive that I think is going to, if it works as advertised, of course, shake things up dramatically because imagine being able to transact on Ethereum, whether that be layer one or L2, in a fully private manner with a private account where you don't have to reveal anything. I would love that. I hate having to recycle addresses and hope that I haven't commingled addresses and keep track of all these different addresses just to preserve my privacy.
00:20:44.820 - 00:21:11.970, Speaker A: And I want to see more privacy tools go live. Obviously tornado cash is still live and working. It's if you're a non us citizen, you can probably use it and it'll be fine. But that's not legal advice, by the way. I'm just going off what the sanctions stipulate. Aztec is obviously also building their L2, their fully private L2, and there are a few other teams working on this stuff as well. But nocturne is building this private account primitive using account abstraction.
00:21:11.970 - 00:21:48.448, Speaker A: So you get all the benefits of that and also using zero knowledge proofs. Now, I'm not sure what the costs would be associated with this on layer one. It feels like it would be quite expensive, expensive to do this because not only are you creating a smart contract account, I'm using account abstraction, which is already costly, using zero knowledge proofs, which is pretty costly, and then anything else behind the scenes. Yeah, I can imagine the cost ramping up here. So this is a perfect candidate for L2 of course. Now the testnet is coming soon with Mainnet in the following months. They're currently, or they being nocturne, are currently looking to collaborate with apps and institutions interested interested in leveraging composable privacy as new primitive.
00:21:48.448 - 00:22:40.098, Speaker A: So you can dm them on that and you can also join the Discord channel and read the worth. Read the whole blog post here for you to check out. I'll link this in the YouTube description below. But yeah, very, very excited to see another privacy project on Ethereum, especially one that has such a broad scope as nocturne does here. All right, so speaking of privacy, the privacy and scaling explorations team at the Ethereum foundation has introduced something called ZKML by Kathy here. So ZK ML is a platform uniting AI and machine learning and web3 to offer a privacy preserving solution using zero knowledge proofs so you can explore exactly what this is here. This may be something that we worth reading either before or after the nocturne blog post to learn more about how to learn more about privacy and with zero knowledge proofs in general.
00:22:40.098 - 00:23:13.030, Speaker A: But that's why I basically highlighting this because I think it just goes hand in hand very well with nocturne. So yeah, I'll just link the blog post in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And then, and then yeah, you can kind of check that out for yourself there. I think I did shout this out yesterday or the day before. Eigen layers form that you can sign up to in order to indicate your early interest for restaking. So they only launched this form. Yeah, one day ago and they've received almost 9000 submissions so far with indicators of interest from individuals and institutions ranging from 0.1
00:23:13.030 - 00:23:44.096, Speaker A: ETH to 30,000 ETH. That's pretty promising so far. Pretty awesome to see. So just another shout out here that you can fill out the form for yourself, which will be linked in the YouTube description below. Yeah, if you're interested in restaking early with Eigen layout there. All right, so an update here or a thread here from zero x beans who talks about ERC? ErC, not EIP 6551 where they say it's probably one of the most interesting application level eips, IMO. It allows nfts to own an Ethereum account.
00:23:44.096 - 00:24:20.538, Speaker A: Essentially your NFT is the access key to a wallet. A lot of interesting properties arise, such as tradable accounts. This is pretty cool. I don't know much about this. Like I'm still learning about this, I'm still kind of wrapping my head around it, but there is a thread here, as I said, from zero x beans, and there's also a graphic here that you can check out about how this works. But he gives an example here where he says, rather than owning a wallet, imagine Zuki number 4282 owns the wallet and all assets associated with it. Not only can you start trading full accounts and have RFV backing the NFT, you could start to have full on chain identities represented as nfts.
00:24:20.538 - 00:25:00.720, Speaker A: This is pretty cool, I think. As I said, this is an ERC, so it doesn't require a protocol level change. It just requires people to use this ERC and to adopt it on the chain. Um, but I think this is something that can be quite promising, especially because nfts obviously are quite popular. As I was talking about the other day, people tie their identity to it, they get very excited about those. And being able to trade your account without the person that has traded it away, still, retaining access to it is a pretty big deal because traditionally you can't really trade accounts because you have no guarantee that the person has destroyed the private key or the seed phrase that would be be able to recreate that account. So it really is a non starter.
00:25:00.720 - 00:25:36.196, Speaker A: You can't just say, oh, I'm gonna, I'm gonna sell you my account here. You know, once you buy it, it's yours. No, that's not how it works, because you could just easily keep the private key to yourself, keep access to the wallet yourself, and the other person has no guarantee or no way to verify that you've, that you've destroyed a private key or a seed phrase, even if you say you have. Right? So that, that is very interesting there. But anyway, I'll link this thread in the YouTube description below for you to check out. But just something that I figured was, was, was interesting and worth checking out there. All right, so Robbie Ferguson from the immutable team has announced that they've just launched the beta of immutable passports.
00:25:36.196 - 00:26:25.170, Speaker A: And I've spoken about immutable passport before. They're calling it a completely self custodial email. B based on boarding with shared liquidity across all games, you can try it at hub dot immutable.com. So it's basically an all in one solution for allowing people to create accounts and have accounts with the immutable ecosystem without the fragmentation that comes with kind of changing between games and things like that. So essentially you can think about it maybe a little bit like an epic game store or a steam, where you sign in with your Steam account or you sign in with your Epic games account and you have access to this library of games, you have access to social features and other things on Steam like mods and stuff like that. That's what the immutable passport is trying to be. Uh, and obviously it's very important for it to be composable across the ecosystems because of the assets that you have within these games.
00:26:25.170 - 00:26:41.666, Speaker A: And you want to be able to access, uh, the wider Ethereum ecosystem as well. So yeah, as I said, you can try yourself at hub dot immutable.com. It is currently in beta, so just keep that in mind as well. Right. Finally here there is a app called Yup. Yup. That's right.
00:26:41.666 - 00:27:04.672, Speaker A: It's actually called Yup. Yup. Um, but this app introduced something today called cross posting, which allows people to post to farcaster lens and Twitter with one click. And it's now live in Yup mobile. So I believe Yup is still in early access. And you have to have, it's only invite only right now. And I don't think I have, I mean, I have access to it, but I don't think I have any invites to, to give out there.
00:27:04.672 - 00:27:50.320, Speaker A: And also I don't have any far caster invites left, unfortunately, I was given another 20 last time I asked, and that was really it. So I have none left. So unfortunately, for those of you where I left hanging, I apologize for that. But hopefully I get more invites at some point in the future and I will definitely keep you guys in mind and let you guys know so I can send through more invites there. But anyway, if you are on Firecaster and lens and Twitter and you have access to Yup, what now you can do cross posting, which I think is pretty cool because the main, main issue I think people have is kind of like deciding where to post. They say, okay, should I post this on Twitter? Should I process on firecast? Should I process on lens? Or when really a lot of them probably think, I wish I could just post this everywhere at once, which I think is a pretty cool feature. So definitely go check this out if you've got access to yup.
00:27:50.320 - 00:28:01.304, Speaker A: But I think on that note, that's going to be it for today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
