00:00:00.200 - 00:00:25.446, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode, the deli Grey refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, Daniels Asana. It has the 2 May 2023 alright everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode. I kind of rugged myself by doing an episode on Saturday because yesterday I didn't really have too much to talk about since I had spoken about a lot on Saturday already. But I'm back today with a few new things to talk about. So without further ado, let's get into it.
00:00:25.446 - 00:01:13.054, Speaker A: So starting off today's episode is a new thread from Terence covering the EIP 4844 implementation, call number 21. Now, I didn't even realize there had been this many calls, to be honest. I know I've covered this thread that Terrence does a bunch of times on the refill before, but this is pretty awesome that there's already been 21 of these calls. And as you guys know, 4844 is already included in in Cancun, the next network upgrade. It's not like 100% included, it's just obviously, as I was talking about the other day, there's these the concept of drivers and passengers. It is the driver for the upgrade, which means it's basically like 99% sure to go in unless there's something critical that goes wrong with it, then it may get removed. But the thing is, is that because 4844 is a driver, if there was something wrong with it, I don't think it would get removed from the upgrade.
00:01:13.054 - 00:01:53.924, Speaker A: What would happen is that the upgrade itself would actually get delayed, because without 4844, the upgrade could still go ahead with the passengers. But it doesn't seem as appealing or as enticing to do a whole network upgrade just with the other eips that are both included so far and being considered for inclusion. So yeah, I mean, at this point in time, I would say 48 44 is 99% sure to be included in Cancun. That 1% just exists for any kind of critical bugs or any issues around that that could pop up there. But yeah, you can check out Terrance's thread for full details on the implementers call number 21 here. I believe it was quite a technical call this time around. There weren't a lot of things discussed that are really new.
00:01:53.924 - 00:02:22.140, Speaker A: It's more of kind of like dotting the I's, crossing the t's and doing the Devnet as we see. You know, there was Devnet five that spun up the other day. So yeah, things are moving. You know, things are moving very well. I think we're pretty close to maybe a longer live testnet, not just the Devnet being spun up for, for this. And yeah, hopefully sooner rather than later on that front as well. All right, Aditya here, who, he works at the Ethereum foundation, put out a blog post with a bunch of other authors here.
00:02:22.140 - 00:03:09.848, Speaker A: And you can see all of them are listed here on the tweets and also in the post itself. But this post is titled confirmation rule for Ethereum, which is an attempt at a fast confirmation rule for Ethereum. Proof of stake with latency under 1 minute in typical main net conditions. So basically what this aims to do is try to have finality within a minute or less, I think so Aditya explains here. Ethereum currently provides a strong finality guarantee, but it has an average latency of 16 minutes under perfect conditions or two epochs. This rule confirms block at a much faster pace, although with weaker guarantee of reversibility than finality. So it's not the same thing that we have today with the two epoch finality, then it, then it would, and it wouldn't be the same thing as like single slot finality, but it's an improvement over what we currently have.
00:03:09.848 - 00:03:59.144, Speaker A: And Aditya and his co authors here argue why that is the case in this blog post. Now, this blog post is very technical. There's a lot of math here, as you can see. So if you aren't across these sorts of things, you probably won't understand what's going on here. But, but I figured why it was worthwhile to highlight for you guys. Cause I think single slot finality and anything else that can get us to, you know, fast finality or fast irreversibility is definitely something worth paying attention to and definitely something that I don't think a lot of people are. Well, I think, I think there are a lot of people focusing on it right now on the research side of things, in terms of Ethereum core research, but on the community side of things, I don't think enough people are focusing on it, because I think for people, they, they see kind of finality and they don't actually understand what that means and better understand why fast finality is something that would be worthwhile.
00:03:59.144 - 00:04:32.654, Speaker A: Well, to give you the quick TLDR, and this doesn't cover everything, and I'm not an expert on this, of course, on this isn't exhaustive, this is an exhaustive list of reasons. But essentially right now you have, I guess like two epochs, you have to wait for that finality, which means that you have a 16 minutes window, give or take, I guess, like a few seconds on that front there, where things could be potentially reversed. There could be a long reorg. There could be a reorg of a few minutes. Right now, obviously, that's not good for the network. That's not good for, for the health of the ecosystem. That's not good for anyone, really.
00:04:32.654 - 00:05:09.202, Speaker A: It is still very, very hard to reorg the chain. You know, even doing a two, three block reorg is extremely hard to do and extremely costly. But it is possible, right? It is something that is not punished, is not punished severely until you get, or is not prevented until you get to those finality guarantees there. So that's, that's kind of like the big one. The other ones include giving faster finality to things like exchanges, for example. So exchanges, obviously will wait a certain amount of block confirmations in order to consider your deposit final. Well, if you have like single slot finality, then exchanges wouldn't have to wait very long to consider the deposit final.
00:05:09.202 - 00:05:58.340, Speaker A: They could do it much quicker than what they can today because a slot is 12 seconds. And if you have single slot finality, it means you have like two thirds of the entire Ethereum network saying, okay, the chain is finalized here at this block, which means that in theory, the exchanges could credit or deposit within 12 seconds rather than waiting. I mean, it obviously varies from exchange to exchange, but some of them can keep you waiting up to ten minutes, right, to make sure the deposit was in there? Well, in theory, with single slot finality, it would only be 1212 seconds, which is pretty cool. What? I'll guess, like one, one slot once the transaction has been kind of confirmed on their end. So maybe they do it like a minute or something that's still vastly superior to what we have today. So that's a big one. Another big one is for L2s, because properly constructed, L2 roll ups get to inherit the ethereum finality guarantees, or the, the only one finality guarantees.
00:05:58.340 - 00:06:39.308, Speaker A: So it would benefit them. Things like oracles, just really, anything that relies on not being real, even across, like slot by slot, is definitely going to benefit from something like this. But as I said, that's not an exhaustive list of why we want single slot finality or why we want faster finality and why it's desirable. You can check out some of the discussions around that. I'm sure some of them are linked in this, in this blog post at the bottom, maybe. No, there's just a bunch of information here, and there's probably links within the blog post, but on the Ethereum Research forum at ETH research, you can go check out all this discussions around single slot finality there. And I think I shared a document the other day that was written by Vitalik or someone else that kind of summarized this as well.
00:06:39.308 - 00:07:38.466, Speaker A: So you may be able to find that I don't have the link handy right now. That's something that you can pay attention to as well. All right, so spreak here on Twitter put out a screenshot of a Twitter poll that Dan Robinson from Paradigm put out over the weekend where he said, should eIP 1559 or 1559 distribute ETH to all stakers rather than burning it? Now, basically the poll was, I guess, vastly in favor of the no option here with I guess like a bunch of people voting yes and a bunch of people voting. It's functionally equivalent. And then Hayden Adams, the founder of Uniswap, said, neither we should use this money to fund public goods. And I replied, saying, if you want to kill Ethereum, this is how you do it. Now, I figured this was worth expanding on because I think it's very important to realize why I said this and why sending the ETH to fund public goods instead of burning it would, would kill Ethereum.
00:07:38.466 - 00:08:49.190, Speaker A: I mean, not kill Ethereum literally, but kill, I guess, like what Ethereum stands for at its core. Now, I've talked a lot in the past about what I actually consider to be a core property, or the core property of a blockchain, and that is censorship, resistance, without censorship resistance, and without all the stuff that falls off of that, such as credible neutrality and decentralization and all that good stuff there. A blockchain is useless in my eyes. It does not do anything that a centralized database can't do better, right? So from that lens, how do you kill something that is censorship resistant? How do you lower its credible neutrality? How do you lower its, its guarantees around those things? Well, you start changing things at the core protocol layer that are currently objective, and you change them to be subjective. So right now, burning ETH is an objective thing, then it does goes to no one, right? It gets, I guess, pseudo redistributed to ETH holders and by proxy ETH stakers, because ETH stakers are holders, right? And then the value flows that way. But the value doesn't flow to any individual, any one individual, any one group or any group of groups or anything like that. It doesn't favor anyone except ETH holders.
00:08:49.190 - 00:09:18.824, Speaker A: That's the only thing it is biased against. And the reason why we are okay with it being biased for ETH holders is because ETH is the thing that secures the network to begin with, right? So technically it's biased towards ETH as an asset, not the holders themselves. It doesn't care who the holder is, doesn't care where the ETH is, and it doesn't even care about the USD price, the network. Right? The humans give the ETH value, but the. And the network doesn't know this. The network doesn't even know the USD price of ETH. It only knows it because we feed it the price of oracles.
00:09:18.824 - 00:10:01.656, Speaker A: But then it's not even the network knowing that it's the different apps that use the Oracle. So this stuff gets quite complex very quickly. So I'm going to try and, try and stay on topic here. But essentially what would happen if instead of burning the ETH, we sent it to Gitcoin? Let's just use obviously, Gitcoin or the protocol guild, you know, the public goods funding initiatives that you were aware of. What happens then? Well, what happens then is that you're now taking a portion of protocol rewards, in this case execution layer rewards, and you're giving it to a group that has control over these funds. And that group is made up of humans that decide what to do with those funds. And it destroys the credible neutrality of that because essentially that group is not going to be credibly neutral.
00:10:01.656 - 00:10:20.088, Speaker A: They're not going to be objective about things. They're humans. At the end of the day, humans are subjective. They run on emotions, right? They make decisions based on those emotions. And then you start the infighting, right? That's a, it's a lot of money going to these orgs. I mean, if you, if you just take the, the amount of money that we've burnt. So let's, let's actually put some, put some numbers on here to illustrate my point further.
00:10:20.088 - 00:10:51.498, Speaker A: So I'm going to bring up the ultrasound money website here. I'm going to go. Since the burn, how much ETH have we burned? Well, we've burned since, since the burn was, was implemented here. We have burned, I'm just scrolling down here, 3.16 million ETH. Now what is that in us dollars? At current values, almost $10 billion. Right? So let's say all of that ETH, instead of being burned, went to Gitcoin or protocol guild or any other kind of public goods funding initiative.
00:10:51.498 - 00:11:18.202, Speaker A: That's $10 billion, guys. Like, that's a shit ton of money, right? So what do you think's gonna happen with that amount of money on the line, it's gonna be the exact same thing that we see happen with a lot of Dow treasuries. People are going to try to loot it. People are gonna fight over where to spend that money. No one's gonna agree on anything. People are gonna try and come in and cause chaos just for the sake of it, right? There's gonna be money spent on things that aren't that money. The money shouldn't go to at all, right? There's gonna be people trying to scam it.
00:11:18.202 - 00:11:42.568, Speaker A: There's gonna be people grifting with it. It's gonna be all sorts of things happening. Now, why is this bad for ethereum? The protocol. Because the money is coming from the protocol, right? It's coming from the network, I should say. It's not obviously coming from the consensus layer rewards, but it's coming from the execution layer. And then people will kind of see that and be like, well, what am I paying here? Like, I'm sending the, you know, I'm paying fees and then those fees are going to these orgs that are just doing whatever with the ETH. This is incredibly neutral.
00:11:42.568 - 00:12:23.904, Speaker A: This is introducing a massive subjective kind of governance layer on top of Ethereum and another, sorry, another governance layer on top of Ethereum's already existing governance layer. And it just causes a mess of things and erodes the credible neutrality of Ethereum and the sensitive, resistant properties of Ethereum and the decentralization of Ethereum and just erodes Ethereum as an ecosystem because of it. So instead of giving these funds to, to anyone really into public goods, we decided we're just going to burn it. Right? That's the most credibly neutral thing that we can do. And, and it's worked pretty well so far. Right? No one's really complaining about the burn. I mean, there are people here and they're saying that it should go defined public goods.
00:12:23.904 - 00:13:07.400, Speaker A: But I think these people don't actually understand that the reason why that can't be done is because the subjectivity of it is just too extreme. Deciding where the money goes is just something that I don't think humans have a really good grasp over. And you can actually draw an analogy to this, to taxes, right? So obviously, you know, most nations around the world charge taxes in one form or another to fund the, to fund a variety of things. Right. Now, a lot of the disagreements and a lot of the, I guess, like, political kind of like landscape centers around taxes. And what happens with these taxes where the money goes, right. And there are hundreds, if not thousands, if not tens of thousands of people in the respective governance.
00:13:07.400 - 00:13:58.156, Speaker A: The governments that make these decisions on behalf of the population, if they make the wrong decision, then logically or in theory, they are punished at the polls. But what is the right and wrong decision? Because these taxes go towards different things. Like if you think that the wrong decision is for your taxes to go towards social services, then you're going to vote for the party that says they're going to cut social services. Or maybe you think that it's a mistake that the rich people aren't taxed enough, so you're going to vote for the party that says they're going to increase taxes on the rich people. So you see how this is incredibly subjective and how it just leads to what we see in all across all of politics, no matter what the country is and how dysfunctional it is in a lot of places, right, and how imperfect it is. And at the end of the day, you know, certain countries have their own, all countries have their own way of doing things. Certain countries have very strong constitutions.
00:13:58.156 - 00:14:36.768, Speaker A: Other ones don't have very strong constitutions. Other ones don't have constitutions at all. Other ones have strong social contracts around certain things. Like in the US, freedom of speech is obviously something that's ingrained into, uh, into the country's kind of very core being, right? Uh, it's written in their constitution, obviously, and they defend that to a, to a point, right. To overturn that would be near impossible to do. Uh, so from that point of view with Ethereum, we kind of do have a, not a formal constitution, but like a, well, a, well, kind of like understood thing within the community. That ethereum's main draw is the fact that it is decentralized, is the fact that it is censorship resistant, incredibly neutral, and that is what all the other value flows off of.
00:14:36.768 - 00:15:24.886, Speaker A: Now, if we compromise on that, in my mind, it really just makes Ethereum very uninteresting, pretty useless, honestly, and not something that I see having a long term impact. And I'm talking long, long term guys. Like I've said before, that I think if Ethereum is built right, if Ethereum's roadmap is executed correctly and we, we don't fuck it up, we can make Ethereum a multi century long network that survives for potentially even thousands of years, right? And that, that kind of stuff's crazy to me because we do have monuments in the real world that have survived for thousands of years. Obviously, there's a lot of ruins out there that have that get dug up. And there are certain things in those ruins that are still in good condition. The obvious other analogy is like the pyramids, for example. There are monuments that we have all around the world and that have lasted hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of years.
00:15:24.886 - 00:15:49.010, Speaker A: I want a theorem to be like that, but I don't want a theorem to just be something that sits in one place and, and is just kind of pretty to look at. I want a theorem to be a network that services the world. I want it to remain credibly neutral, decentralized, and censorship resistant. And the only way we do that is by not introducing this subjectivity into it. Right. And I spoke about this a lot when we had the censorship happening with the. I mean, it's still happening with the mev boost relayers.
00:15:49.010 - 00:16:35.420, Speaker A: That is another kind of thing that introduced subjectivity to the network. And it's a consequence of Ethereum not having a proposal builder separation in network. And it's a consequence of MEV. But it still happened where we had this sidecar software come in named MeV Boost. People started using it like almost 90% of all blocks on the Ethereum network are built using this, using this kind of mev boost software. And a lot of the relay is at the beginning we're censoring, right? And then we brought that down because Ethereum as a community came together and worked to bring it down. But if we didn't, then you could see that, okay, well, 80% of the network at any time could censor anything, right? And that erodes Ethereum's credible neutrality, and it's an essential resistant properties alone there.
00:16:35.420 - 00:17:19.948, Speaker A: So you see how there are certain things at every level that can affect this. But I think that not burning the Ethan, distributing it to, I guess, like public goods or something like that would be, would be really weird, right? I think that it would introduce such a broken layer to Ethereum, and it would lead to a lot of bad consequences over the long term. So hopefully that expands on my comment there for those of you who may have seen it and wanted more information on that. All right, moving on to a tweet from Patrick McCrory, who now works at Arbitrum. I've spoken about him a bunch on the refill before. He writes a lot of great blog posts about L2s. Well, he put out a tweet where he said ethereum and the Ethereum foundation provided the time, space and money for the community to learn how to scale blockchain systems.
00:17:19.948 - 00:18:05.436, Speaker A: It'll soon be time for rollups to take care of Ethereum and support the next set of innovations that brings Defi to the mainstream audience. And he tweeted out this picture of the Teenage mutant Ninja Turtles and their mentor. I'm sure you've seen this picture where their babies and the mentor is a theorem. And then I forgot I've gotten the mentor's name, and they're like the L2 solutions, and then they grow up and they help the mentor along when they're all grown up. That's exactly what has been the philosophy of Ethereum. And this is a philosophy that's been set by the Ethereum foundation for quite a while now. And that's the philosophy of subtraction, where essentially the Ethereum foundation wants to be as, as little hands on as possible on the protocol and wants to fund and let the extra protocol teams and everyone building on the protocol flourish.
00:18:05.436 - 00:18:38.242, Speaker A: And that's exactly what they've done with L2 solutions. And with roll ups, we had all of these people come together and say, okay, how do we scale Ethereum? The Ethereum foundation didn't say, this is how we're scaling Ethereum, right? It didn't say, this is the roadmap that you have to follow. This is the only things that we are funding, blah, blah, right? No. They said, okay, well, you know, come to us if you want funding with the solutions, and we may or may not fund you. And then people started building solutions outside of the Ethereum foundation, funding or not. And then the community came together and said, wow, okay, these roll up things are really cool. They really work.
00:18:38.242 - 00:19:16.452, Speaker A: They, you know, plasma wasn't exactly something that, that worked very well. Uh, but what evolved from plasma was roll ups. And now we have, like, different types of roll ups, different flavors. We have like, layer threes, have all this stuff happening. And that's because Ethereum as an ecosystem and the theory of foundation allowed these things to blossom outside of any kind of centralized control. And it goes back to that bizarre model that I've talked about, instead of that cathedral model, where essentially a bizarre is a chaotic place, right? Like, if you've ever been in a, in a country where they have, like, a marketplace, that is a bizarre model, where there's just stalls everywhere. There's no real kind of, I guess, like, organization to it.
00:19:16.452 - 00:19:55.646, Speaker A: There's no, you know, there's no signage, nothing like that. Everyone just set up their shop wherever they could find a seat. And you can go there and you can buy, you can sell maybe to some, to some merchants, and they're all there, whereas with a kind of cathedral model of, I mean, the cathedral model obviously takes inspiration from kind of like the top down, I guess, like religious models where you have like the, you know, one person at the top, then you have people underneath him and then underneath them, underneath them and so on and so forth. It's like a hierarchy, essentially. Now, in a, in normal businesses, in some of the business, the biggest businesses in the world, right, they are not bizarre. They are, they are hierarchy. They're very heavily controlled.
00:19:55.646 - 00:20:28.728, Speaker A: Like take Apple, for example. There is a clear hierarchy there, right? Yes. All the apple stores exist in different parts of the world, but they all feed up to Tim Cook, the CEO, right? And they all fed up to the board and the executives. Whereas in a bizarre model, there is no board, there is no executives there. There is no control here. It's just a flat kind of organization. And that's exactly what the Ethereum ecosystem has tried to cultivate, that flat organization where everyone can come together and build, and then you come to consensus as an ecosystem on what is actually valuable and what is not valuable.
00:20:28.728 - 00:20:56.076, Speaker A: You're not told what is valuable. You're not told what's not valuable. You can work on whatever you want, and it's, it's kind of the marketplace of ideas. You get funded if the idea is good, you don't get funding if the idea is bad. Maybe you do get funding if it's bad, and then later on it turns out to be bad and no one wants to fund you anymore. If you went to investors today and said that you wanted to build a pure plasma scaling solution, you probably wouldn't get much money for that. And it's funny.
00:20:56.076 - 00:21:26.650, Speaker A: On that note, I spoke about a project that I funded the other day, maybe a couple of weeks ago. Now that he's doing like a plasma roll up hybrid, that's a net new kind of construction there. But if you were just trying to raise for something older that everyone has kind of agreed on, that doesn't really work at scale like plasma. You probably wouldn't, wouldn't raise money for it. We wouldn't raise nearly as much money as you would building something else. And that's that kind of marketplace of, of ideas there. So, and the project, by the way, I forgot to mention the name is, is int Max, that I was just talking about that plasma kind of roll up hybrid there.
00:21:26.650 - 00:22:22.250, Speaker A: But that's exactly what the Ethereum ecosystem has cultivated. I just figured that was worth talking to because it's great to see that, and it's great to see all the success that all these solutions are currently having will continue to have into the future. And I can't wait to see Ethereum scale like we've all wanted to see it scale for such a long time now. Speaking of L2s, Op Labs put out a tweet saying in February, core developers from the optimism collective gathered in person to dive deep into everything that needs to happen to achieve technical decentralization of the op stack. And this blog post covers all the exciting plans. So this is basically the op labs and I guess, like the optimism ecosystems plan to decentralize the full op stack, including the op mainnet or the optimistic Ethereum network that we all know and love today. So basically, this has been something that I think a lot of people have been hammering on about with all of the L2s.
00:22:22.250 - 00:23:18.194, Speaker A: You know, when are you going to remove your multi sigs? When are you going to remove your governance councils? When are you going to take the training wheels off? When are you going to make it trustless? When are you going to have fraud proofs? You know, when are you going to, when is everyone going to be able to run a validator and a sequencer and all that sorts of stuff? Well, it's a progressive approach here, and I've talked to this a lot in the past. I'm not going to rehash myself here, but it is a progressive path, and that's exactly what op labs is talking about in this post and in their Twitter thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below for you to check out. Highly recommend reading it. But this is the end state, right? No multi sigs, no admin keys, no governance councils, right? Fully governed by a dao, you know, with on chain voting and all that sorts of stuff there. Anyone able to permissionlessly run a validator, run a sequencer, run approver, run any part of the stack, right? That and Ford proofs and all that sorts of stuff. That is the end state that we need to get to now. To get to there is going to take a long time.
00:23:18.194 - 00:24:09.854, Speaker A: As I stated before, it's not going to happen overnight. But L2s have a much, much easier time of decentralizing than layer ones for a lot of the reasons that I've explained before. But the number one reason in my mind is that one of n trust assumption where you only need one honest sequencer on the entire L2 network for you to get your transactions included. And even in a world where all the sequences are censoring you or not are refusing to process your transactions, you could still with a properly constructed escape patch at layer one, you could still do the transaction at layer one and, and remove your, your funds or move your funds around or do whatever else. So taking that lens and kind of looking at it from that point of view, yeah, that's a much easier approach there. But, but yeah, you can go give op Labs blog post to read for yourself to check out what they're about. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:24:09.854 - 00:24:35.054, Speaker A: I'm moving on to an update from Eigen layer. So they put out a tweet thread saying Eigen layer, stage one mainnet is set to launch soon, bringing restaking to eat stakers and fueling innovation for avs's. This blog post. This, this post explains benefits of restaking early and to express interest in areas taking early. You can fill out this form here. So yeah, there's a blog post here, there's a tweet thread and everything, I believe. Yeah, I read it here.
00:24:35.054 - 00:25:04.094, Speaker A: So apparently the people who restake early will get you ahead in the Eigen layer ecosystem is what they say here. Now, I don't know exactly what that means. And you guys know I'm an investor in Eigen layer, but, uh, you know, people are going to read that and they're going to think airdrop, right? That's, that's, that's the first thing I thought of. I'm just like, and I, and just because I'm an investor doesn't mean I have any special, uh, insight here. I don't know if there's going to be an airdrop. I don't know if there's going to be anything, really, but reading that, I was just like, get you ahead in the eigen layer ecosystem. Okay.
00:25:04.094 - 00:25:29.186, Speaker A: I mean, on the technical side it does, because it means you don't have to wait around in any kind of queues or any kind of gating. You get to be first through the door. But to me, it also sounds like a kind of potential airdrop opportunity. I don't know. That's just something that I, that I thought of. Now, people that still have a zero x zero zero withdrawal credential can point their validators to Eigen layer contracts right now. So you don't actually need to go through the withdrawal queue and then restake again.
00:25:29.186 - 00:25:56.934, Speaker A: You can just point your validators to eigen layers contracts right now if you wanted to, which is, which is actually pretty cool. And I believe there's like 20% or something of the network still on zero x zero zero. So if that's you then this might be something that you're interested in there. But yeah, all the resources are available in this twitter thread as well as the blog post. As I said, you can go check that out. But Eigen layer is moving really, really quickly here, which is awesome to see. As I've said before, there's been a lot of criticism of Eigen layer over the, over the past, I guess like twelve months since it's become a popular talking point.
00:25:56.934 - 00:26:46.974, Speaker A: There is a lot of valid criticism. But I think what I said and what I still stand by is that we need to see Eigen layer live on main net. We need to see it playing out in the real world with real world economic incentives at play, and see how it all shakes out before we can draw any kind of conclusions. Because this is the first thing of its kind at this kind of scale. And it's going to tell us a lot about how, I guess, the stakers on Ethereum are going to behave when these other incentives come along. Because this is going to inform a lot of other projects that get built around staking, and it's going to show us what the real value prop of Eigen layer is and what people actually care about and the strength of the validators that sign up for Eigen layer. Like are these validators actually doing their duties or their extra duties? How many of them get slashed on Eigen layer? And just a reminder here, getting slashed on Eigen layer doesn't mean that you're slashed on Ethereum.
00:26:46.974 - 00:27:32.344, Speaker A: The way it works is that you'd be slashed on Eigen layer, and then Eigen layer has your withdrawal credential. So it would withdraw your validator. It would take the ETH that, that you owe it, and then the ETH would go, the rest of the ETH would go back to you, but it doesn't actually get you slashed on the Ethereum protocol itself. I think that's a very important point that I think people need to be aware of, because that's one point of FUD that I've seen that people say, oh, if Eigenlayer slashes, you know, 30% of the Ethereum network, then that's going to be really bad for Ethereum security. It's like, no, no, no, it doesn't slash the Ethereum validators on Ethereum. It slashes them on Eigen layer and then queues them up for withdrawal. Now, because of the withdrawal queue, we have an orderly unwinding in that case, which means that it's not going to pose a major security risk to the Ethereum beacon chain because there's that orderly exit with the withdrawal queue.
00:27:32.344 - 00:28:00.424, Speaker A: They still have to go through the queue that you can't skip the queue. Now, of course there can be derivative products built on top of that that allow you to skip the queue, but that still doesn't matter to the Ethereum network. That is an economic derivative, that is not a protocol derivative that is issued to you by the protocol. It's issued on top of the the on top of Ethereum by a project running smart contracts, obviously, and there are certain risks associated with that. So I just thought that was a important point. But yeah, you can go check this out for yourself. I'll link it in the YouTube description below.
00:28:00.424 - 00:28:45.572, Speaker A: I finally here just wanted to give a shout out to Ing on Yama. They have their registration now open for the ing on Yama CTF. You can sign and CTF is capture the flag. It's basically, it's kind of a thing that's used in the cybersecurity, I guess, like ecosystem, but has kind of come over to the ZK ecosystem or the Ethereum ecosystem here, which basically is a competition with teams trying to complete or capture the flag of these, these various tasks as fast as possible and beat other teams here. So you'll be challenged in your knowledge of ZK cryptography, happy hacking skills and problem solving. So you can go check this out at INg Onyama CTFD IO and I'll also link this in the YouTube description below for you to check out. And just a disclaimer again, I'm an investor in ink on Yami here.
00:28:45.572 - 00:29:04.414, Speaker A: So just, I just wanted to shout this out. Not, not only because I'm an investor, just because I think it's interesting and I think that you should get involved if this is something that interests you. Anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today. Thank you everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow.
00:29:04.414 - 00:29:06.014, Speaker A: Thanks everyone. Bye.
