00:00:11.450 - 00:01:50.990, Speaker A: Thank you everyone. My name is Antoine from IOI. We wanted to present you initiative to specify chain ID as there are going to be more and more blockchain we wanted to to specify that in order to enable any kind of interaction between blockchain so what is universal chain ID? It's a GitHub repo, you can check it out, it's a UC registry. So what we are doing there so it's a registry so technically we try to specify for each blockchain what kind of ID we could give it to them. So we work with Pedro Gomez who did a great job for the Ethereum community and we also worked in the Cosmos community are going to have a lot of chance. So why we create initiatives? The idea is to enable kind of protocols that can be useful for IBC for instance, also for Wallet Connect because so far Wallet Connect is connecting most in the Ethereum space. However there is some plans to connect to more chains can be useful as well for developers who are building multi chain wallets and as well very useful for them services that actually need to have a clear specification.
00:01:50.990 - 00:02:40.670, Speaker A: When it comes to map crypto addresses to chain IDs. There is a specification about coins, however, we believe is not really relevant when it comes to mapping giving an ID for chains because coins at some point it will be on ethereum and then it goes to another chain. For instance Binance. So we think that specifying correct chain ID is important. Who is doing this project? So Pedro Gomez from Wallet Connect myself, Simon Marta, working at IOV. Ricardo Montagno, who is working at Commercial and Daniela Pavin as well. Commercial is an IOV has to change from the cosmetic ecosystem.
00:02:40.670 - 00:03:27.980, Speaker A: So when we started in July the group, we had the first meetup in Berlin and then we're going to have a second month for the people interested in this room to come at the amphitheater where we're going to speak about actually this topic. You can find the repo here GitHub UC registry, our telegram and Twitter. We wanted to thank people from the community who helped to breed the initiative danila taking care of all the communication and Ben from Andy Joe from Me who had great contribution to the project. Thank you so much for your time.
