00:00:35.150 - 00:02:15.400, Speaker A: That's it.
00:03:47.770 - 00:04:29.778, Speaker B: Good morning, good afternoon, and good evening everybody. My name is Kartik. I'm one of the co founders of ETH Global, and I'm super excited to welcome all of you to NFT Hack. We have an amazing day and this weekend planned for all of you today and can't wait to get started and tell you all about what's going to happen for the next few days. So there's a lot of things we want to cover today. We have a summit going on, we have the hackathon happening, and there's a lot of things about logistics for the hackathon, specifically for all of you hackers, and a lot of preview on what we're going to do the summit on that I want to share. But before I get into all of that, I want to really showcase the ETHGlobal TV that we're using for this event.
00:04:29.778 - 00:05:02.430, Speaker B: All of you are looking at this video and talking to me here through Ethgobal TV. I encourage all of you to log in and check this out. We designed this specifically so we can share an experience together. This will sync based on what's happening on stage and we will get to do some really creative things and also talk to all of you on the chat. So if you're on the live chat, please log in. You can send any questions as we do all of our summits. If you have any questions for our speakers, you can ask them here and we'll be able to relay them to our speakers.
00:05:02.430 - 00:05:39.370, Speaker B: On top of all that, there's a lot of cool things we planned for the rest of the weekend as well. And be sure to stay tuned for some of those details. So NFT hack is a ETH global event. And for those of you who don't know, ETH Global is an organization with a very simple mission. Our goal is to onboard thousands of developers into the Web Three ecosystem. This event is especially really dear to us because we've seen the most excitement that we've ever gone for any of our events. And as a result, we structured this weekend to be a mix of two things.
00:05:39.370 - 00:06:20.150, Speaker B: There's a hackathon going on which starts today and continues until Sunday. And we also have a summit on NFTs and the potential of what could happen in this space, which is proudly presented by Zora. And we'll be doing the summit right after this kickoff and we'll have some great talks and some great speakers coming on. So I'll walk through what we have planned for and lined up for each of those events and let's start this off with talking about the hackathon. So this has been a mind blowing event for us. We have over 550 hackers participating this weekend. And on top of all of that, we have over 1000 people joining us for the summit.
00:06:20.150 - 00:07:24.054, Speaker B: The 550 plus hackers are coming in from 55 different countries and they spend 19 different time zones. So it's going to be an interesting way to kind of figure out how to coordinate all of this thing and keep everything live for the next 48 hours. And we are super excited to see how this experiment goes. We decided to plot where everybody came in from. These are all the cities that all of our attendees, including the Summit attendees, are diving in from, and it's just incredible to see the diverse crowd and the representation we have from all continents. So on top of all of that, we have over 70 mentors who are going to be available over the weekend on Discord, helping you anywhere from getting unblocked as you work on your projects, whether that's technical help UI UX help. You need to think about how you make this a better pitch for your demos on Sunday or just anything else you'd like to know about this space or how to use a specific protocol.
00:07:24.054 - 00:08:05.030, Speaker B: We also have 26 companies, some of the best representation in the NFT ecosystem, sponsoring this event, but also partnering with us. And I want to talk about what each of them are doing and how they'll be here to help you succeed for the weekend. In addition to all of that, we have over $75,000 in prizes. This is in collaboration with all of our sponsors, and I'll be going through some of the details of the prizes as well. So, again, a jam packed weekend and let's get started. So the first thing I want to do is thank some of our sponsors who have made this event possible. I want to especially thank Zora, our presenting sponsor.
00:08:05.030 - 00:08:58.538, Speaker B: They've been incredible to work with for the past couple of weeks, and they're also our Summit sponsor. And I am just super excited to see what everybody builds on the Zora protocol. I also want to thank Rarible, the Ethereum Foundation protocol labs circle Nftx and NFT protocol for being our pillar sponsors. They're also here and they're going to be sharing about what they do, what they're excited about for this weekend, and how you can use their protocols and their websites and the marketplaces to really integrate your NFT hacks. And then we have our provider sponsors that's uniswap. ENS dpay covalent charge particles, ETH block art, polygon, decentraland, super rare nier pinata the graph, niptech superfluid and boson protocol. All of these companies are here to help you.
00:08:58.538 - 00:09:47.482, Speaker B: They'll be able to hang out in the mentor channel. You can ping each of them on the Discord and learn about what they do and how you can use anywhere from their prizes to their APIs. And lastly, I want to thank our participating supporting sponsors, foundation, Nftao, Ipves, Main, and Niftypi. So the thing that excites me the most about this entire event is that we have such a broad spectrum of the skill sets of the attendees for the hackathon. There are people who are interested in building stuff with DeFi's and NFTs. We have so many people trying to do cool and creative things with generative music and generative art. There's a lot of social and gaming apps and there's a lot of apps and additions and improvements and marketplace related projects that people have talked about and are planning to build.
00:09:47.482 - 00:10:34.300, Speaker B: So whether you're a developer or you're a designer or you're a creative artist or you're a musician, this is going to be a really cool way to collaborate, cross teams, cross skill sets, and really build really interesting things together. So let's quickly talk about this weekend. So I have a lot of jampeck logistics for the next 1015 minutes and then we'll talk about some of our prizes and then we'll roll into the Summits. So Friday, Saturday, Sunday. How does that look like? I'll cover that in just a second. A lot of you have asked us about team formation and how you can still find teammates if you're looking for them or if you're looking to get any help, what prizes you can win, all the talks and workshops that are happening today and tomorrow, how judging, particularly, is going to work for Sunday. And lastly, the summit that is going to kick off in an hour.
00:10:34.300 - 00:11:25.866, Speaker B: So the most important thing here is everything is happening over Discord. A lot of you are on this chat watching this as a hacker. Some of you will start joining in as Summit attendees for all of you who are participating in the hackathon. From your dashboard, you would have been able to link to the Discord and that would have given you access to all the private channels. For this hackathon, this means that only who is participating, whether that's our sponsors and our attendees, which is you. You'll be able to see the specific NFT hack channels and talk to everybody there and then everything else is still available on Discord. But the NFT hack channels will not be visible to everybody and everything on the Summit is already open to the public.
00:11:25.866 - 00:12:20.406, Speaker B: So you can just come in and log on to ETHGlobal TV and watch all the talks there. And we also have dedicated support channels for various topics and various protocols. The other thing for all hackers is that for all the talks that are happening today and tomorrow, you would have already gotten a calendar invite with those details and links on how to join them and where you can watch the live streams and the entire schedule for this event. Summits and Hackathons is already on our website. We want this thing to be really asynchronous and we recognize that there's a lot of time zones that have to be accommodated. So the way we're structuring everything is that if you are not able to make something live and you really want to, everything will be recorded and will be instantly made available on the ETHGlobal YouTube channel. You can check out the YouTube channel by just heading over to ETHGlobal and everything else is also going to be again posted on Discord.
00:12:20.406 - 00:13:07.222, Speaker B: And lastly, just as a reminder to check out the schedule, the agenda, who is speaking and everything else, you can just head over to NFT ETHGlobal Co. That's going to be the most up to date place to see everything that's happening and that's going to be a resource for the next three days. So let's quickly talk about how does the hackathon work. The hackathon officially begins now, which means, as of me saying this sentence, you can start working on your projects and that gives you 48 hours and 17 minutes to work on anything you'd like and submit that on Sunday. You can work with teams. If you are working with a team, you can have up to five members on your team. And as I just said, it's 48 hours from here to submit your project.
00:13:07.222 - 00:13:41.426, Speaker B: And that becomes that comes out to be noon, which is 12:00 p.m. Eastern on Sunday, March 21. And the rules and the criteria for the event is very simple. Your submissions and what you're working on should be related to NFTs. That is the biggest qualifier here. We want you to still have the full creative freedom to build whatever you'd like, but you don't have to do something specific or take something from the list. We also have a list of ideas that you can pick from or seat from, and if you're looking for inspiration and we're happy to share that.
00:13:41.426 - 00:14:32.338, Speaker B: And it's already shared on the Discord and the Info Center that you have access to. And the only other condition is that everything you're going to be doing and submitting for this weekend must be done during the hackathon. That means even though you are free to use any open source libraries or for any existing project, especially in the Web Three ecosystem, you should not be working on or continuing a project that you've already been working on before today. So you can start something new today. You could have specked out something, but you should not start coding anything or you should not submit anything that was coded before this event started. And what we'll be doing is in order to qualify for any prizes, you will be asked to submit your source code and we will verify if the work was done before or during the weekend to actually receive the prize. And again, there's a lot of edge cases in there.
00:14:32.338 - 00:15:47.306, Speaker B: So if you have any questions, if you want to clarify something, please message anybody on the global team on Discord and we'll be able to look at and address your concerns. And the other kind of common thing that we got asked a lot this week was what if you're new to Ethereum, a lot of you are trying to understand how you can anywhere from use NFTs in a creative way to a developer from the web two side transitioning into learning about smart contracts and solidity. And we want this to be as open and as welcoming for all of you. So what we really do is if you think you need help or if you would like to work with somebody who has complementary skill sets, whether you are a designer looking for somebody with development skills or the other way around. We really encourage you to find somebody and work with somebody, to really collaborate and do something that you both would enjoy and get some insights and skills out of. So you can head over to Find a Team channel on Discord and really ping a lot of others who are also looking for help or ideas. You can also introduce yourself in the NFT Hack chat and talk about what you're looking forward to and what you're excited about and how you're thinking about your ideas and hope to meet others.
00:15:47.306 - 00:16:18.086, Speaker B: And by the way, in case you were not able to find somebody today or over the course of the rest of the day, it's still okay. You can hack solo. You don't have to have a team. This is very much about building something and trying something and experimenting with what's possible in this space. And we really want you to create over anything else. So if you can't find somebody, or if you don't know what to do, or you really haven't been able to figure out exactly how you want to get to where you want to be, we're here to help. Feel free to ping us.
00:16:18.086 - 00:17:26.350, Speaker B: The mentors are here to help, our sponsors are here to help and we'll make sure that you get everything you need to accomplish what you'd like to get out of this weekend. On top of all that, there's a lot of talks and workshops for all skill sets, for beginners, for experts. We did a lot of workshops yesterday for how to get started with certain protocols or if you're getting started with solidity for the first time and we have some boilerplates as well, you should really check out eat scaffold repo and use that to really reduce the amount of work you have to do on the setup and getting everything started. If you were not able to attend some of these workshops from yesterday, they are all recorded and you can check them out again immediately on YouTube and you can use that as a way to catch up on that content. And there's a lot of summit talks today that are going to be really broad and on a lot of different themes. And we also have a lot of talks on Saturday so all these things will be happening. You can check out again everything on the website and for all the details on the workshops and how to use specific APIs and protocols, all that is linked on the Info Center for all of you hackers.
00:17:26.350 - 00:18:13.750, Speaker B: And one more time, the full schedule workshops, the YouTube links and everything else is available on NFT ETHGlobal co the website for this event. So I want to quickly walk through how judging and submissions is going to be structured. This is a really important piece, so I'm kind of covering this immediately and we'll be sending a lot of messages reminding everybody about the structure because a lot has to happen in parallel for all of this. The key takeaway is that submissions are due at noon, 12:00 p.m.. Eastern on Sunday the 21st. That is 48 hours and twelve minutes from now. And we really want to make sure that everybody submits everything in that timeline because everything after that will be done live and synchronous.
00:18:13.750 - 00:19:09.790, Speaker B: So we really have to get everything going in order for all of your projects to be judged for us to work on what some of the best teams and the projects are from the Civic. So there's two main things that are happening for judging. There's a main judging that every team will go through and that's where you'll present to the main judges and you'll talk about the project and who you are and what you built over the weekend. And then there's sponsor price judging. Sponsor price judging is for every project that is looking to integrate or qualify for a sponsor price. You will have to separately also present to the sponsors after you've done the main judging. The key thing to note here is that when submissions are due, which is at noon Eastern, the main judging starts 1 hour after submission deadline, whereas the sponsor judging will start 30 minutes after the submission deadline.
00:19:09.790 - 00:19:59.766, Speaker B: And the way it's structured is as follows for the main judging, you will have four minutes in total to demo your project. We really encourage you to take aside some time and record a video of your demo. This way there are no technical difficulties, there are no AV issues. All this will happen over zoom and if you are relying on anything from a live transaction on mainnet or you have to wait for certain transactions to confirm, we don't want you to be penalized for the time it's going to take for those things to happen. So we really encourage you to record those things so you can just smoothly play your video and get to the heart of your demo. But of course, you don't have to necessarily do that. We strongly encourage that to happen.
00:19:59.766 - 00:20:48.666, Speaker B: But you can also present live. It just means that we are going to be running on a very tight schedule. So as soon as every team hits a four minute mark, we will cut you off and move on to the next team because we only have a limited amount of time to process possibly hundreds of projects. So don't do this last minute. Please be sure to take out some time before submissions are due to really think through how you want this demo to work and how you're going to talk about it. And we'll be sending all those instructions again in a lot more detail on discord, but all these instructions are already available in the Info Center in terms of how the sponsorship judging works, if you are presenting or if you are submitting for a sponsor prize. The key thing to notice here is that you have to specify which prizes you are applying for on your dashboard as you are submitting the projects.
00:20:48.666 - 00:21:48.186, Speaker B: And for every sponsor you are going to be presenting to, you're going to have to go to their discord. There's going to be an audio video channel on Discord for each sponsor. So for example, if you have two sponsors that you're applying for the prizes, you will have to first go to the main judging and then immediately after that in that same window, which is 3 hours after submissions to Due, go to the Sponsor Discord for each sponsor you're qualifying for and present your demo to them. You'll have the same amount of time for your demo to each of those sponsors and then the sponsors would independently determine who their winners are in that same window. So be sure to really specify these prizes. And because there's going to be a lot of things happening in parallel, you'll just have to keep in mind if it's worth going to a sponsor before you go to the main judging or after. We'll do our best to give you an estimate for when your number is going to be in the queue for presenting to the main judges.
00:21:48.186 - 00:22:32.218, Speaker B: So you can coordinate this and really present to sponsor or main judges first. Again, a lot of these details are already on the infocenter and you can check out all this stuff if you head over to NFT ITCOBA Co Judging and we'll be reminding you all these details over and over on Discord. And if you have any questions, we're also happy to answer all these things in Discord. We just got a question on the chat. Your demos don't have to be on Mainnet. There is no requirement for you to deploy everything on Mainnet. It is a question around if you are going to be judging and you do require a main net transaction.
00:22:32.218 - 00:23:23.354, Speaker B: We just want you to make sure that all that still happens in time and you are not waiting for something to happen in order for you to move on with the rest of your demo. Because if you hit your four minute limit for the judging, we will cut you off and move on to the next team. So you can do everything on testnet, you can do everything locally, but you don't have to do anything necessarily on Main net. And lastly, I just want to give a quick reminder to everybody on our Code of Conduct. We have rules on how to participate and behave in our community. And you can check out the rules and the code of conduct by heading over to Ethgobal Co rules. But in summary, to keep it quick, we just want you to be respectful to everybody around you, and harassment and abuse in any capacity or any form is not going to be tolerated.
00:23:23.354 - 00:24:05.614, Speaker B: We will take immediate action against anything that resembles harassment. And if you need any help or if you need anything clarified or you want to just ask us anything or mention anything to us in private, please reach out to anybody on the global team and we'll be able to address your concerns immediately over discord. So before we get into the prizes and everything else, I want to really remind everybody that even though this is a weekend event, we really want you to pace yourself. Don't optimize working on your project over your health or your sleep. We don't want this thing to be exhausting for you. We don't want this thing to be a competitive thing. We really want you to have fun and really learn.
00:24:05.614 - 00:25:01.290, Speaker B: This is more about experimentation and seeing all the creative things we can do when you combine developers, creators, artists, designers, and everybody and such diverse crowd we have for participating this weekend. So try as much as you can. Even if you don't get to finish what you wanted to do, I still encourage you to present and really talk about how close you got to our judges, because we want you to learn and keep working on your projects. So all that said, let's go talk through today's schedule. The first thing I want to cover is the summit. We're going to just very soon roll into our summit and our talks. The NFT Summit, which is proudly presented by Zora, is going to have a super wide and amazing set of speakers covering a lot of things in the NFT and the artist ecosystem.
00:25:01.290 - 00:25:52.190, Speaker B: We're going to kick off today with our crypto media talk from Jacob and D from Zora. Then we're going to have a fireside chat with Gary Vaynerchuk. Then we have a discussion on the value of NFTs with Dylan Field and Tubador. We have another panel on what comes after NFTs and how we can make them productive, which is going to feature Linda, Linda Shea, Jesse Waldman and Marguerite Coin, artist from Neon District. And then we have a panel on how ethereum is for artists, featuring some of our favorite people in this space, latasha. Bobby Hudrich, RAC and Mike Shinoda from Lincoln Park. And then we have an amazing panel on the creators behind a lot of the initiatives in the NFT ecosystem.
00:25:52.190 - 00:26:57.838, Speaker B: We're going to be talking about Mint Fund. So we have Carlos, Mikhail, Jess, Samantha and Cersu who are going to be sharing their insights into what it takes to build this community from the ground up. And lastly, we're going to have an interview with Roham from Dapper Labs, and he's going to be talking about TOPSHOT Flow and how Dapper Labs is thinking about going and taking crypto and NFTs into the mainstream. So we're really close to jumping into our very first talk of the day. But before that, I want to just give a quick overview of some of the prizes that we have and some of the sponsors who are super excited to share how they're supported this event and each of you this weekend. And we have some videos that we asked all of our sponsors to record to greet all of you and really kind of COVID who they are, why they're excited, what they do, and how you can get involved anywhere from using the protocol to building with them and along them. And what we'll do is we're going to kick this off with our very first in our presenting sponsor, Zora.
00:26:57.838 - 00:27:07.560, Speaker B: So we're going to share a video that Zora prepared for us. And we'll then jump into their prizes really quick. So we'll pull that up and.
00:27:20.110 - 00:27:40.020, Speaker A: Hi there. We are zora. Well, I'm all alone here, but I speak on behalf of the people who are Zora. So I am part of Zora as well, at least for now. We are not what you think we are. We are not a platform, and we're not a marketplace either. You are the platform.
00:27:40.020 - 00:28:29.360, Speaker A: In fact, we believe that there should be 1000 platforms like you, maybe a million even all as weird and wonderful as you are, with their own communities and their own ideas. Valuable ideas that can change the world or at least change the way how people look at it. We want you to be able to manifest those ideas, put them out there, build on top of them, make money with it, or think about completely new ways. What value means to you and your community and how you distribute it. We can't make this decision for you, but we think that you should have all the tools to make these decisions. We believe that this is the only way we can achieve the big things that weren't possible until this very moment. Because until now, we were not able to build them together.
00:28:29.360 - 00:28:52.882, Speaker A: And that's what we do. We are building these tools open source, transparent and accessible for everyone. We want you to use them to shake up things, stick it to the man, as they say. Change the world. Sounds complicated. It's not the opposite. It's the easiest thing on the planet.
00:28:52.882 - 00:29:12.206, Speaker A: As long as we do this together. Are you getting it? I hope you do. Now, some official information. If you feel alone or have questions, you can talk to Lily, Rec or Ethan. They will be waiting for you on our Discord Channel on Saturday. Lily will be there from 11:00 A.m to 12:00 p.m,
00:29:12.206 - 00:29:20.442, Speaker A: Pacific Time. Rec from 02:00 P.m to 03:00 P.m Pacific Time. And Ethan will be available from 10:00 p.m to 11:00 p.m Pacific time.
00:29:20.442 - 00:29:48.010, Speaker A: Say hello from me. I have not seen them in so long. They're really fun and I miss them. Speaking of fun, we have three prizes of 2500 USDC each, but only for those who really get it. We hope to see smart contracts that enable crowdfunding, crowd minting, crowd collection, and more. Go as galaxy brain as you want. Big, small, precise, universal.
00:29:48.010 - 00:29:56.170, Speaker A: I know you have what it takes. I believe in you. I believe in us. Good luck.
00:30:01.010 - 00:30:53.674, Speaker B: Amazing. That was a very creative introduction to Zora and how they're excited to be supporting all of you this weekend. You already heard a bit about the schedule for the Zora team to be available to answer and address any of your questions. And they also talked about the prizes they're going to be doing. I want to quickly repeat some of these prizes and just to give a quick overview, zora will be giving 2500 in USDC for building dowels and CrowdX to really build any contracts or applications that enable CrowdX. And there's going to be 2500 USDC for making developer tools and making it simpler and easier for Zora related developer tools to be built, and then prize for 2500 USDC again for building your own marketplace. We'll share all these details again in the Prizes page and over discord.
00:30:53.674 - 00:31:03.220, Speaker B: But here's a quick overview for what's coming for Zora. Next up, we have wearable and super excited to see what the Rarible team has to say.
00:31:05.030 - 00:31:29.510, Speaker C: Dear Hackers, it's Alex from Rarible. I welcome all of you here today on this East Global NFT hack event. We're all witnesses of how Blockchain World undergoing massive developments and the NFT is delated. And the largest developments of this year. And the force behind this development is you. Hackers, builders, designers, product managers. I welcome all of you here today.
00:31:29.510 - 00:32:20.854, Speaker C: We at Rareable started 1.5 years ago as a platform that democratized access to NFTs to creators. We welcomed everyone to try to experiment of what will be the next big thing inside the NFT market. And we've been always tracking community sentiment and being community oriented. Previous summer, we launched the Governance Token and Liquidity Mining program that massively increased the liquidity on the marketplace. Today, we just hit $2 million of daily volume, with $30 million of the volume over the last 30 days and almost 60,000 active traders, buyers and sellers on the platform. We are continuing our efforts into democratizing assets to the NFT world and Progressive Decentralization.
00:32:20.854 - 00:33:07.930, Speaker C: And today we want to pre release our NFT protocol. We are taking all the infrastructure behind Wearable and making it accessible for everyone. Wearable protocol supports NFT issuance trading. And there is the API Indexing API that tracks all the NFTs ever created on the ethereum blockchain out there in every collection and making them available for trading under our Dex. Our issuing tools allow you to set an arbitrary royalties for several addresses. Our Dex respects that royalties, even if they were created without using Wearable issuance tools. We support front end fees.
00:33:07.930 - 00:33:43.250, Speaker C: You can pass arbitrary front end fees when contributing an order. To the protocol. Wearable supports indexing of all the blockchain data and providing the metadata to it. Wearable.com would be the largest client of Wearable Protocol. We have all these 50,000 traders that would be using the shared order book. So that's the single best reason to try to build on Wearable Protocol because we know that it's really hard to grow the marketplace with the supply and demand growing simultaneously.
00:33:43.250 - 00:34:34.806, Speaker C: And moreover, we have the Wearable Dao and we've been always a community oriented and community owned marketplace. So by building on Wearable Protocol, you can be sure that you will have all the support from the Wearable Dao. You're starting early on, you can help us, the team, to design incentives that would support all the projects building on top of the Wearable Protocol. We specifically designed Protocol to be agnostic and agile to allow you to express all your possible creativity in building projects. On top of it, we support lazy maintenance, we support collaborations, we support arbitrary royalties, just as a map of addresses that need to receive downstream royalties. So let's try to build something great together. The documentation available at docs wearable.com.
00:34:34.806 - 00:35:05.120, Speaker C: You can find me and our team under ithack. Discord sponsor, wearable Channel or on Twitter under Insider Zero, X or Telegram. Cannot be. I'm pretty sure that you will be able to get all the support from our team. Most of our team lives under European Time Zone, so we will be able to get you support by early US time and late hour time. Good luck building. Let's do something great together.
00:35:07.010 - 00:35:41.770, Speaker B: Amazing. That was Alex from Rarible, and to sum up their prizes, they're going to be giving $5,000 in total for the best use of variable protocol. And the first price, our first place will get $2,500 and the runner up will get 1500 and then $1,000 prize for the third place at the best use available, protocol. Next up, we have the amazing folks at Protocol Labs, and Molly will be talking about Protocol Labs Filecoin IPFS, and how you can use Protocol Labs into your hacks.
00:35:47.390 - 00:36:25.100, Speaker D: Hello everyone and welcome. Welcome to NFT Hacks. Super excited to see what you all create this weekend. It's going to be an amazing, amazing time. I'm Molly, I lead the IPFS and FalcoIn teams here at Protocol Apps, and I'm psyched to see everything that happens here around creating NFTs, making it more accessible to share them and mince them decentralizing and persisting them on networks like IPFS and Filecoin and in general building a lot of really cool stuff. So can't wait to see what folks create and how we can make it easier for everyone to participate in this massively growing space. It's going to be super fun.
00:36:25.100 - 00:37:01.266, Speaker D: Wanted to let everyone know that we have three prizes for the Protocol Labs section of this NFT Hack. There's a $2,000 prize for mind blowingly beautiful NFT experiences on IPFS. Send us your best. I'm sure there will be many and they'll all be phenomenal. And one for the dreamy development experience. Really helping make building NFTs that use IPFS and filecoin way easier and making it more accessible and slick and easy to use for all sorts of NFC creators. And then finally our third both of these at 1.5K
00:37:01.266 - 00:37:43.242, Speaker D: around creator comfort. This could be tutorials, it could be tools for Minting NFTs, it could be safety archiving, it could even be specs for making sure that people don't lose access to their IPFS hash to their NFT and make sure it stays nice and safe and secure so that it will be persistent into the long term. But really excited to see what folks create there to make sure that everyone who is building in this space has the tools they need to be super successful. So those three prizes for two thousand dollars, one point five and another 1.5 thousand really excited to see what people build. We have a special treat for you as well. We've created a new site called NFT Storage.
00:37:43.242 - 00:38:30.318, Speaker D: NFT Storage. Go check it out. This is really optimizing for folks who want to laser focus on just the creating and building and don't want to have to worry about the backend parts of making sure that their NFTs are persisted to IPFS and FalcoIn. This site will handle it for you. It has a lot of great examples for how to integrate this into your application and we'll make sure it gets persisted to IPFS and Valcoin. And so definitely go and check that out. You get 5GB of free storage and if you're trying to spend your time on the NFT Marketplace side versus really differentiating on the storage end, this can help you get up and really quickly.
00:38:30.318 - 00:39:06.370, Speaker D: So go give that a try. And of course, please come talk to us. There's going to be a ton of folks presenting. There's a workshop on Thursday with yousef about Minting on IPFS and ethereum. There's a talk on Saturday about NFT Storage and how to use it and the best ways to decentralize your NFTs from Alan Shaw. And so definitely go and check those presentations out and we'll be in discord as well at all times. So talk to us about what you're building, would love to see you build on these tools and love to make you super successful and give you lots of prizes.
00:39:06.370 - 00:39:12.830, Speaker D: So let us know and we'll see you around. Come to the Sponsor Protocol Labs channel and we'll chat.
00:39:17.170 - 00:40:05.310, Speaker B: Amazing. That was Molly with an overview of what Protocol Labs has in store for you for this weekend. Really check out NFT Storage. It's a super cool utility for just having all of the back end and thinking taken care of for storing your data. And just to summarize the Protocol Labs prizes, there's $2,000 available for the most mind blowing beautiful immersing NFT experience that leverages and is built on top of IPFS. There's $1,500 for the best tool for making NFT development with IPFS or Fallcoin a really good and dreaming experience. And then $1,500 prize for the best project that helps artists and creators leverage their work being given out on behalf of protocol apps.
00:40:05.310 - 00:40:15.970, Speaker B: So next up, we have Circle and Rachel from Circle will talk us through what Circle is doing in this space and how you can help win some of the prizes.
00:40:21.290 - 00:41:10.530, Speaker E: Hello everyone. My name is Rachel Mayer and I'm VP of Growth and Product Marketing for Circle. Welcome to NFT Hack. I don't need to tell you that NFTs are skyrocketing in popularity and it's making blockchain technology more mainstream. The moment that we have all been waiting for as crypto OGS has finally arrived, consumers are rushing into NFT marketplaces. The ones that can facilitate crypto and non crypto consumers are the ones who are going to stand out. Everyone I know who doesn't know what Bitcoin or Ethereum is are trying to get their hands on the latest NBA TOPSHOT moment or the next Kings of Leon album, which was offered as an NFT.
00:41:10.530 - 00:42:33.406, Speaker E: But we all know that most consumers don't really know how crypto works and that the process of buying an NFT is intimidating. How many people will know how to complete a checkout process that requires them to have a crypto wallet have an ETH balances? Most consumers don't have a wallet or know what ETH is. Yet they expect the same experience with consuming a media artifact, just as they would when shopping on Amazon or shopping with Spotify to listen to music. And that's where Circle comes in. Circle is a global financial technology company that enables businesses and developers all over the world to harness the power of stablecoins and public blockchains so that you can build payments, commerce and financial applications worldwide. You also probably know us as the principal issuer of USDC, the world's leading, fastest growing, regulated and fully reserved stablecoin. USDC is now shy of 10 billion in circulation and we're quickly adding net new digital dollars in circulation hundreds of millions each week.
00:42:33.406 - 00:44:02.650, Speaker E: This demand is what drives the moment for mainstream adoption of payments in consumer applications. Circle supports companies like Dapper Labs and hundreds of other crypto native businesses with high quality fiat on and off Rams through APIs, all powered by USDC. With Circle APIs, NFT projects, companies and marketplaces can make buying and selling NFTs super simple. You can offer both crypto as a means of payment or traditional methods like credit cards and banks and wire transfers, a variety of rails and payment methods bundled in into one seamless API. We abstract the crypto entirely if you want to, or allow users and consumers to pay with crypto. Also, you can pay out through rails like cards and banks when you sell the NFTs for high cash out volumes for both creators and sellers on your platform as the infrastructure for payments and wallets for companies like Dapper Labs. We've been in the middle of all of this crazy NFT momentum and action, helping scale companies when there is demand.
00:44:02.650 - 00:44:56.578, Speaker E: And this is why we're super excited today to sponsor NFT Hack this weekend. And our unique prize for all developers is to award a total of 5000 USDC to the projects that build those best payment experiences using our Sandbox APIs. With the Sandbox, you have complete access to what a production environment would look like across our payments, digital dollar accounts and payouts product APIs. It's the complete package and solution for you to build an NFT marketplace or payment company. We're really excited to sponsor NFT Hack and see what you're going to build. The first place is 2500 USDC. The second place is 1500 USDC and the third place is 1000 USDC.
00:44:56.578 - 00:45:14.500, Speaker E: Let us help you build the next gen wave of internet commerce using blockchain technology. We're really excited. Thank you so much for your ambition and we're super thrilled to see what you're going to build. Thanks.
00:45:16.630 - 00:45:59.360, Speaker B: Amazing. Some really cool insights and background on Circle. Just to repeat some of the prizes, circle is going to be giving $2,500 for the best experience of payments using Circle Sandbox. There's going to be a second prize for the $1,500 for the second best experience and another one for a third place for using the Circle Sandbox. You can check out all this information on the Circle discord page as well as the prizes page, which I'm going to shortly talk about in a second. So next up, we have Nftx, and Alex from the Nftx team is going to talk about their protocol and platform.
00:46:01.430 - 00:46:41.310, Speaker F: Hey, everyone. I'm Alex gosman, the founder of Nftx. I'm not very good at speeches or promotions, but I've written down some points which I will now share. The adoption of NFTs over the past couple months has been truly staggering. For a while now, I've been quite bullish on NFTs, but even I have been checked by the recent mania, and it has really only served to strengthen my belief that NFTs will be a revolutionary technology. This decade, I foresee a future where the concept of a digital collectible is as ubiquitous as the concept of a selfie is today. Just as the Web two revolution has made everyone a photographer, I believe the Web three revolution will make everyone a collector.
00:46:41.310 - 00:47:46.638, Speaker F: In truth, I do not think the real NFT mania has even started yet, because there are still so many unexplored possibilities bringing this back to Nftx. Our goal as an open and a protocol is to become a black hole for all non fungible assets, whether they be in game items, digital art, collectibles, physical property deeds, tokenized, legal agreements, or other forms of NFTs. Every time a developer deploys a new NFT, it increases Nftx's total addressable market, which is one reason I encourage everyone listening to consider building an NFT related product. At its core, the Nftx protocol itself is actually quite simple. Anyone can call the Create Vault function which deploys an ERC 20 fund token that is linked to a particular NFT contract. For example, vault 13 manages the Glyph token which is linked to the Autoglyph contract. After a vault is created, the fund token can then be minted once for each NFT item which is transferred into the vault.
00:47:46.638 - 00:48:51.750, Speaker F: It is also possible for a fund to target specific token IDs from a collection, such as the Punk Zombie Fund, which targets specific IDs from the zombie CryptoPunks. At the time of this recording, we are working hard towards launching a version two, but nevertheless we encourage developers to try building on our current Nftx contract. It is my hope that documentation for version one will be ready by the time this video airs, but regardless, we are keen to offer assistance to any developers who need it. Feel free to bring general NFT questions to us as well during the hackathon if you have any, and we will do our best to answer. I am a true believer in decentralization and it has been amazing watching Nftx develop as an open these last few months. There's so much work being done behind the scenes and there are always new people joining us in our mission to bridge the fungible and non fungible worlds on ethereum. I urge anyone interested in NFTs, whether you're an artist, developer or collector, to come check out our forum or stop by our discord chat and say hello.
00:48:51.750 - 00:48:55.350, Speaker F: We look forward to meeting you. Thank you for listening.
00:48:57.450 - 00:49:21.570, Speaker B: Amazing. That was Alex from Nftx protocol. And just to sum up their prizes, they're giving away $5,000 for the best use of Nftx protocol, where the first place gets 2500, the runner up gets 1500 and the third place will get $1,000. And lastly, we have NFT protocol. And we'll have Joseph from NFT protocol. Talk about who they are and how you can work on the NFT protocol.
00:49:24.470 - 00:50:26.674, Speaker G: Hi everyone, Joseph here from NFT Protocol. NFT Protocol is a generalized protocol for NFTs and what that means is we're building a number of features on top of different EVM chains and different blockchains for decentralized architecture for trading, facilitating the creation of and building on NFTs and the economy that's supported by NFT trade. So the first thing that we're doing with the NFT Protocol is building a dex that has many unique features. It's web three enabled, we'll talk about that a little bit later. We have also an idea to create different types of NFT galleries, for example in archaeology, and a lineage of memes and the internet culture that can be represented by NFTs. We're also looking at making a price index for NFTs. So you have NFT groups, maybe, let's say an art NFT group or you have like insurance NFT groups or specific things like a specific artist's.
00:50:26.674 - 00:51:02.766, Speaker G: NFTs can be bundled into an index and then given a price and traded on a regular exchange that would be like a decentralized like AMM or something like that. So let's talk a little bit about where we are now with NFT protocol. And right now we're creating a Dex. It is not like an automated market maker Dex, it is more like order book decks. So each of the trades or each of the orders on the decks will have an index. And that index refers to either a 721 to 721 swap. So you can trade one NFT for another or a 721 to ERC 20 trade.
00:51:02.766 - 00:51:56.418, Speaker G: So as the creator of this swap, I can specify which NFT that I have for sale and I can specify which ERC 20 that I'd like to receive. Now, because it's web three enabled, we can have uniswap that routes trades through into the ERC 20 and then it'll make it so that pretty much any ERC 20 can be used to purchase any NFT and the creator of that trade will be able to get the ERC 20 token of his choice, his or her choice. So that's one of the things that we're doing with the NFT protocol right now is creating this order book Dex. We're going to be expanding this into the 1155 standard and other standards that come out to support NFT trades. And currently we're in beta for this decks at the moment. And if you'd like to sign up for the beta, please go to Nft.org, check out our discord or our telegram and you can get connected to us through there.
00:51:56.418 - 00:52:53.374, Speaker G: And once we release the beta, it's going to be live with three features 721 to 721 trade, 721 to 20 trade as well as Minting which is going to be pretty cool. Some of the unique features of the decks are going to be web three features. Like for example, you'll have some sort of like feed of NFTs that would look like a social feed or some sort of timeline where you can see the recent things that have been posted. All of it will be completely decentralized. We also have the whitelist feature which means if I wanted to trade one on one with another person, instead of creating an order that's open to the public, I can create a private order and then only they are able to see the details and only they are able to trade with me in that instance. So we're looking at some privacy components and OTC trade components as well as having web three features on the front end. So if you'd like, please come participate and make suggestions.
00:52:53.374 - 00:53:23.360, Speaker G: We also have a 1000 NFT reward for anyone that's going to be making the best suggestion and the best plan for what you could do with the NFT protocol based on the things that I have outlined here. And in our 1 hour workshop on Saturday, we'll also be going into how NFT protocol can be used to facilitate trade and enhance the NFT community as a whole, so that's NFT ticker on CoinMarketCap and CoinGecko. That's NFT protocol. See you guys later.
00:53:25.970 - 00:54:37.106, Speaker B: Amazing. So, just as a creative way to get people to learn about NFT protocol, they'll be giving a thousand NFT tokens to the hacker who has the best engagement with NFT Protocol saturday session, which is tomorrow, and you can check out the time on the Eve Global website. So those were just a few of our key sponsors that just talked about who they are and why they're excited to be part of this event. But I also want to just do a quick shout out to all the other prizes we have available from all of our other sponsors and I'll go into the details for I'll just point you to where the details are for each of these companies. So, Polygon will be doing $5,000 in prizes, eigth Block Art is going to be doing 4400 in prizes, covalent has 4500 in prizes for the best use of all their protocols. Near Protocol is going to be doing $5,000 in prizes and so will Decentraland. And Dpay is doing $2,000 in prizes for the best use of the protocol integrations for each of these, then we have Charge Particles doing $4,000 in prizes, superfluid Finance doing 3000 in prizes, super Rare doing 3500 in prizes.
00:54:37.106 - 00:55:44.214, Speaker B: We have Niftex doing 5000 in prizes, the Graph doing 2000 in prizes, pinata doing $1,000 worth of prizes for the best use of their protocol. ENS doing $750 in prizes, POAP doing $3,000 in prizes, and a couple more that we're going to be announcing in the next day. All that on the prizes page. So, just as a way to make sure everybody knows how to look at the full list, you can check out all of the workshops, the videos, how to get started, the documentation for each of these prizes and the details for how you can qualify. You can simply head over to NFT eatglobal Co prizes and you'll be taken to the Info Center page on the list of every prize that we are giving out for this weekend. So that was a very jam packed 1 hour of logistics for how the hackathon is structured. Again, our goal was to mention as much as we can, be as verbose as we can, and all this stuff is available on the Info Center on Discord.
00:55:44.214 - 00:56:25.126, Speaker B: We'll be reminding you a lot of these details and we'll be clarifying anything that you want to know again throughout the weekend. And we hope that it answered and addressed most of the questions that we got emailed or asked directly. And if there's anything that we missed, feel free to ask them on the chat here or on Discord and we'll be able to address them for you immediately. So that said, what I'm super excited about next is us moving on to our summit. There is a lot of amazing talks that we have planned for the next few hours. And what I want to do is kick off with our very first talk of the day and I want to talk and invite Jacob and D on stage. I'll ask them to turn their video on.
00:56:25.126 - 00:56:44.030, Speaker B: Jacob and D are co creators of Zora and they're going to be talking about the NFT paradigm and inverting the Internet, in a talk that's titled Crypto Media So, without further ado, please welcome Jacob and D. And let's hear more about Crypto Media. Let's kick off. NFT Hack and the summit.
00:56:45.570 - 00:56:57.540, Speaker H: Jacob d sweet. Wait Here. I'm just about to share my screen. One SEC. All Right. Can you see my screen?
00:56:57.990 - 00:56:59.170, Speaker B: You're all good?
00:56:59.320 - 00:57:14.198, Speaker H: All Right. Brilliant. So, yeah. Hi, Everyone. Dee and I are pretty excited to run through this talk and presentation today. We've titled it Internet Renaissance. So shift away from the crypto.
00:57:14.198 - 00:57:54.470, Speaker H: Media title. I guess what we want to talk about today is basically the moment of time we're in in the ecosystem. Generally, I think NFTs have catapulted through into the zeitgeist and kind of having this amazing moment. I think what we want to do is take a step back and kind of talk about why is this moment happening? What is the history and the state of the Internet that has led us to this moment? What are NFTs as a paradigm. Why they're important. And then, crucially, where we think the space is today and where we think it needs to go. It's so incredibly early.
00:57:54.470 - 00:58:14.458, Speaker H: There is still so much left to build. And I think yeah, we're just excited to go through those details. Just a quick intro on me. I'm Jacob. I'm, one of the co creators of Zora, was previously at Coinbase. Before Zora, where I worked with Dee and I'll. Let Dee introduce himself quickly before we jump in.
00:58:14.458 - 00:58:26.046, Speaker H: Yep. Dee another one of the co creators at Zora. I met Jacob while working at Coinbase. I look after everything. Kind of. Artists, creators and whatnot at Zora. So, yeah, pretty excited to be here.
00:58:26.046 - 00:58:54.662, Speaker H: Thanks for having us. Sweet. Okay, let's jump in. So let me just press next. So let's start with the obvious. So NFTs are undoubtedly a paradigm shift and specifically, they are a paradigm shift in information ownership. So if we think about the Internet pre NFTs, there have kind of been two dominant systems of information ownership.
00:58:54.662 - 00:59:48.422, Speaker H: So if you think about the media, you create content. Anything that's being put on the Internet. There's typically two systems of ownerships that have existed and have kind of defined how we create and share media today. One is the copyright system. So the legal system that's kind of instituted by governments and across jurisdictions all over the world and copyright is defined by well, if I have ownership over this piece of meteor information, I have the right to restrict, reuse and distribution and copy, paste, downloading, like all those things. So that's like, kind of the think of that as like the fiat information ownership system. The kind of second bucket, which is obviously related to copyright is platform content and media and information ownership.
00:59:48.422 - 01:01:02.830, Speaker H: So when you create a piece of media or a piece of content and you post it onto a platform, that platform is like monetizing that information, creating value, generating value from that. And if you're a big enough creator, you may see some flow through from that ownership. But for most of us, everything that we're creating on the internet, the value rounds down to zero and the platforms kind of monetize that and essentially have de facto ownership over that media content instead of us as the creator. So the problem with the kind of two predominant information ownership systems is that it's kind of a paradox basically, to generate value from that information, you have to restrict access to it. So you basically build a platform, essentially functions as a walled garden. That walled garden is built out of advertising or subscription or pay per view. And the paradox is that you want to build a walled garden but fit everyone in the world inside of it to maximize the value capture.
01:01:02.830 - 01:02:07.442, Speaker H: So if you think about the universe of the internet today, we kind of live on these megaplatforms, these huge walled gardens that bundle everything into a single place. So all of the media, you create the social graph of people who are creating and interacting the community on those platforms, and it's those platforms who can benefit the most from owning that content. So our view is that we've never really escaped intranets. The Instagrams, the TikToks, the YouTubes, the Facebooks, the Spotify's, they're all essentially private networks that take ownership of the media and the content. And the information that we create, they monetize it better than any of us and then we get paid in social currencies like likes or follows. And like I said earlier, if you're big enough, you may get AdSense, revenue or a share on the actual dollars generated. And this is the entire mental model that kind of forms how we think about information ownership.
01:02:07.442 - 01:03:20.166, Speaker H: Like, oh, for this to generate value, we must restrict access to it. So NFTs, there's kind of like two gems of quotes that I think you should hold in your mind to think about, well, what's actually happening with this new value system? Why are NFTs a paradigm shift and a complete inversion of how we think about media ownership. So the one on the left, Stuart Brand, in the 80s, calls out like, information wants to be free, but information also wants to be expensive and that tension will not go away. So if you think about that, it's like information, we want to share it, we want to copy it, we want to download. Like we want to distribute it as far and wide as the information wants to go. But in the kind of prior paradigm of information ownership, that is at odds with the fact that well, the only way you can generate value is to restrict access. Second kind of gem that you should hold in your mind when thinking about NFTs is this one by Mackenzie Walk, which she said in 2016 in an amazing essay called My Collectible Ass is the future of collecting may be less in owning the thing that nobody else has and more about owning the thing that everybody else has.
01:03:20.166 - 01:04:46.230, Speaker H: So it's not about owning the thing that no one has. You could have a physical artwork that only lives on your wall, but what if you own the piece of media that's on a million people's screens? It's a very weird way to think about ownership, but in practice, that is a step towards what is actually happening and enabled by NFTs, which kind of alleviates this perpetual tension that has been called out with the Prior. Internet, which is like, well, how could we have information that is both universally free and accessible to consume, but also be recognized for its inherent value to society and to whoever the creator of that information was? So NFTs are a paradigm shift because it inverts the way that we think about information ownership and it really gives us the best of both worlds for information ownership on the internet. So by way of example, just to kind of think about how this works in practice and if you've been in the NFT space for a little bit, you've probably heard this Mona Lisa analogy a million times. But if you think of NFTs as something similar to the Mona Lisa, the Mona Lisa as an artifact. It is individually ownable, but it lives in the public domain. So it's universally free for anyone on the planet, anyone on the internet, to copy, remix, redistribute, print on a poster, put on a t shirt post on Instagram.
01:04:46.230 - 01:06:08.610, Speaker H: And every time that that redistribution or that reproduction is happening, that isn't taking value away from the original, that's actually making the original Mona Lisa more valuable because it's becoming more well known, more culturally relevant, has more notoriety and as a cultural artifact like accrues more value, the more widely known it becomes. So to kind of shift the perspective by this visualization and crude analogy, it's like, well, what if that same value system now starts to apply to every piece of information, media and content on the internet? Be it memes, be it YouTube videos, Instagram posts, typefaces websites themselves. What if we do now have this canonical original, this provable original that can be individually owned but is now universally accessible to the entire internet to be freely shared and copied and distributed, built on top of. And that's where NFTs kind of get us the with an NFT. It's the opposite to copyright or the opposite to how platforms function. It's like the more you copy paste, the more you share it, the more you download it, the more it's being displayed, the more valuable you're. Making that original instance, the more valuable you're making that NFT.
01:06:08.610 - 01:07:13.110, Speaker H: So if we think about pre NFTs, this is kind of how you would view most platforms. So you have a platform, and they're kind of this walled garden that content is bundled within and restricted within. And to move it between platforms, you'd have to copy and paste or duplicate or pirate or download or whatever. NFTs completely flip it. So now it's like, well, you can have a single NFT, and now any platform on the Internet can freely build on top of it. So instead of TikTok having a monopoly on the entire content database of TikTok, it's like, well, what if now every single developer on the planet had complete universal access to that database? Like, imagine, would we have just this singular feed experience that everyone can build on top of? Or what would it look like if there are now thousands of websites or apps that can start to build and remix and curate all of that content, not just TikTok? So it gives you a sense of the platform inversion that happens because of NFTs. So NFTs are undoubtedly a paradigm shift.
01:07:13.110 - 01:07:59.206, Speaker H: In our view. They're a paradigm shift that's halfway there. So the current construction or the ecosystem today is basically, we have an amazing ecosystem of galleries or the nomenclature of marketplaces. So there is probably like now 15 to 20 different marketplaces. This is all aggregated a level below or above, however you want to review it by openc. But essentially, one of the biggest questions that a first time creator coming into the ecosystem is like, well, which marketplace should I mint on? And then the problem is that when you mint on a marketplace, the marketplace owns the market. You end up becoming bound to that marketplace in a lot of ways.
01:07:59.206 - 01:09:05.110, Speaker H: Of course, for some of these marketplaces, you can take your NFT post sale and you can start to move it around. But unfortunately, the value system that accrues there is built and held within the marketplace themselves. So the marketplaces charge fees. Once you kind of do a primary sale or move it, it's like, well, where does this value capture happen? And there isn't any interoperability between marketplaces today, so you could have anywhere between five, or you could have as many markets as there are marketplaces on a singular NFT. So we're kind of finding ourselves in a similar situation to pre NFT Internet, which is, well, okay, I now have to pick which platform I want to bound myself to, which I mint on, and then accrual the value. But there isn't this kind of interoperability that the technology allows for. So the media and the content may be universally accessible, but currently we see a marketplace per platform, which is kind of like giving us this headphone.
01:09:05.110 - 01:10:21.714, Speaker H: And the insight is that NFTs are bound to marketplaces. So for us, for Zora, we started as a marketplace, and we love that model, we get to have a strong curatorial sensibility. We get to charge a fee on top of everything that's going on. And when we were starting to build for NFTs, we kind of had this awakening, which was like, well, there are amazing NFTs on every single one of these marketplaces, and it's one thing for us to curate and point to one of those NFTs, but what we wanted to do is go, like, hey, this amazingly beautiful artwork on super air. Wouldn't it be great if we could just point to not only the NFT but also the market on Zora, so we don't have to compete in this zero sum competition for winning absolutely every single artist? What if there was some shared public layer that meant we're all building on the same market? And what if that market could be owned by the creator themselves? So we kind of ran into this headfirst. We realized ourselves as like, oh shit. The whole reason we're building on this technology is to create a new open and public infrastructure for creators to reclaim ownership of their work.
01:10:21.714 - 01:11:11.962, Speaker H: And the way that marketplaces function is kind of at ODS with that. Like, us ourselves is a walled garden. We're getting very early flashbacks for the early decentralized exchange era. So if you remember, for those in crypto at the time, there was kind of this first wave of order book based decentralized exchanges and they were directionally correct. It was like, yes, there should absolutely be exchanges that are decentralized and protocol based. But the early instantiations were a little skumorphic. It was like, well, why don't we take the order book model that we see on traditional exchanges like Coinbase or Nic or the Nasdaq and put that on the blockchain? But the result was, even though it was like this global and open system, you still had all of this fragmented and competitive liquidity.
01:11:11.962 - 01:11:52.938, Speaker H: So it was very hard to create this unified system that would allow for liquidity to accrue into a single point. And then, crucially, most of them were not entirely permissionless, so you would need to go convince a particular relay or a Dex to actually list your token. It wasn't a permissionless and public tool. There was still this kind of like, middleman that you'd have to go through to access the technology. So the shift from early Dex to something like Uniswap really did like, three things. It was a net new market model that hadn't been seen pre crypto. It was a model that led to global liquidity.
01:11:52.938 - 01:12:36.686, Speaker H: So it was like a more effective model. Instead of seeing fragmentation across all of these different order books, it was like, well, what if you can collapse it all into a single pool? And then the third and most important was it was entirely permissionless and completely open for any developer or a person on the Internet to use and start an exchange. So for five or $10 in gas. You could start up an exchange and get the same power out of the box as a developer as you would the entirety of something like Coinbase or Binance, which is just huge paradigm shift. So you can get a Dex with a couple of lines of code. So for early NFT, I think we're kind of seeing a similar thing which is directionally correct. There's no doubt about that.
01:12:36.686 - 01:13:19.790, Speaker H: Yes, there needs to be a market model and a way for value to accrue to the creators and the people who are minting and curating and collecting these NFTs. But the model again is a little skumorphic. It's like let's bring auction house and put it on the blockchain. And we're kind of finding ourselves in this similar position. There is a lot of aggregate fragmented liquidity that has been trying to be aggregated in multiple different places, but it's resulting in like okay, creators having to mint on 15 different places fragmenting not only the markets for those NFTs, but their identity across those platforms too. And most, if not all, tend not to be permissionless. So there's different curatorial standards.
01:13:19.790 - 01:14:24.130, Speaker H: Most marketplaces do not have open source or verified contracts. They are not entirely open tools that developers can build on top of and get the benefit of this liquidity out of the gate. So for us it was like, well, okay, we were to take that same conceptual leap for NFTs. What would the net new market model be for NFTs? How would that model enable global liquidity that would open up the ability for any developer or creator to start to easily build on top of this new paradigm? And how can we make it entirely permissionless, so to speak, to that new market model? We designed the entire protocol around like well, instead of us being a marketplace, being a protocol, the NFT is the marketplace. So you know exactly where the market needs to be. The amazing thing about NFTs is that they have a very unique market. A it's one to many.
01:14:24.130 - 01:15:10.746, Speaker H: There is only ever one owner and there are many people trying to buy. So this is very different to say, a fungible token which has a many to many relationship. So while something like Uniswap or SushiSwap or a model like that may be winner takes most, it's very hard for it to be winner takes all. Because the types of relationships you need between those many to many buyers and sellers means you'll probably still need multiple forms of market. For an NFT, it's very different. The market collapses to a single point at every time you know exactly who the owner is. So the protocol was designed entirely around this notion that's like, well, let's build the market into the NFT itself and let's give that market ownership to the artist, to the creator of that NFT.
01:15:10.746 - 01:15:57.360, Speaker H: So when you're minting your NFT, you're minting the market for it. And that market is entirely open for anyone to build on top of it. And there are some interesting design decisions which you can see in the Docs, which we'll link later, where it's not about the highest bidder. So anyone can bid in any currency. Anyone can bid at any time, and you as the owner, do not have to accept the highest bidder. If you see an anonymous bid for, say, $10,000, but then a bid from Kanye West for $500, you may be inclined to take the one from Kanye West because it could increase the value of your work long term. And there is a notion of a creator share and perpetual equity built into this token so you can realize that time.
01:15:57.360 - 01:16:26.838, Speaker H: So the results of the protocol. So one thing to call out is that the way we deployed the protocol was a one time deployment. So Zora Protocol, we did not build any ability for upgrades. Any upgrades would have to be through social consensus, which means that the protocol is entirely unstoppable. So we can't stop the protocol even if we wanted to. Anyone can mint on it. Anyone can interact with the markets.
01:16:26.838 - 01:17:39.150, Speaker H: It is like, by all intents and purposes, open public infrastructure that allows you to create these NFTs that can survive outside of the lifetime of any given marketplace or platform and gears it towards permanences as far as you possibly can, so to speak, on the permanence piece. Basically, whenever you mint a token on the Zora Protocol, you have to mint the content hash, the Sha 256, hash of what that piece of media is. That hash, when you mint it, is immutable. You can never change it. And what that does is it means that if you need to say it's like you initially choose IPFS or Rweave or even AWS as somewhere to store your media, if that file storage solution, for whatever reason, turns out, that it goes down or was incorrect or there's a better model. The owner can always update the link of that token at any given point in time. And the content hash means the public can always verify that that link is pointing to the exact right piece of media.
01:17:39.150 - 01:18:13.382, Speaker H: At that point. If you buy a token and change the link to a piece of media, that is not what the NFT was minted for. It's trivial for the public to compare that to the signature of the media in the hash. So, yeah, when you're creating on the Zora Protocol, your NFTs are entirely platformless. So if the website, you know, went down or the team went away, the market is still running for it, the NFT still exists. Anyone can build on top of it. So you don't need our permission to create your type of NFT.
01:18:13.382 - 01:19:09.840, Speaker H: It can be literally any form of NFT you can mint. And the permanence aspect is like, yeah, okay, how can we create mechanisms? That means that this NFT as an artifact can survive for as long as the Ethereum blockchain itself, which could be decades. Or depending on how optimistic you are on blockchain technology, the NFTs will last for as long as Ethereum itself, which could be an extremely long time. Another point to talk about is this notion of perpetual equity. So if you think about someone like Jean Michel Basquiat, it's like the original. His first painting sold for $200 in the early eighty s. And as the culture and society woke up to the beauty and the notoriety of his art, that value skyrocketed into the tens of millions, hundreds of millions, over time.
01:19:09.840 - 01:20:25.494, Speaker H: And in the traditional art world, resale royalties have been tried to be instituted over hundreds of years. Like the France had started the resale royalties in the early 19 hundreds, but they didn't become commonplace across auction houses. So as these works get bought and sold over time, artists would almost entirely miss out on earning some of the value that they've created through those works as it changes hands in Zora protocol, when you mint, you can define well, what is the resale royalty that I would like as a creator as this thing is bought and sold in the future. So it could be 10%, 20%, literally whatever you want, and that is built into the protocol itself. So when you settle on the protocol, that royalty is honored by the market. And our view is that, well, instead of seeing ten or 20 marketplaces that are helping people view and browse and curate and collect and experience NFTs, there should be millions of these marketplaces. And maybe every website that is now every website is able to build on top of this universally accessible content media.
01:20:25.494 - 01:21:25.046, Speaker H: They should have a direct line to the marketplace themselves. So by bringing the market into a single point, making it permissionless and open to everyone, every website can now be a marketplace in some way, shape or form. So to flash back to here, it's like I think we can actually get closer to this direction because now we have this public and open layer where now every single one of these platforms, if they're starting to curate, their own subset of NFTs that exist on the protocol. And one of their community members happens to love the meme or love the video or really love the song. If that platform still wants to help that person directly collect and engage with the market within its own website, it can. It doesn't have to push you out into some other marketplace. Every website can become a marketplace in essence, and we're starting to see this kind of play out.
01:21:25.046 - 01:22:32.190, Speaker H: The Zora protocol only went live at the start of this year, and we're already starting to see these unique and specific experiences on the protocol. So one that launched a couple of weeks ago is catalog. You know, they are building an entirely specific experience to music. They want to come at the spotify's and the soundclouds of the world and explore what it means to give ownership of the music and the value of music back to musicians. And it's a very distinct experience that you could never do for this experience wouldn't work for memes, perhaps, or typefaces or whatever type of marketplace you want to see. We should see a very rich diversity of experiences based on the types of NFTs that are being created and then similarly mirror this amazing tool for writing. So coming at the mediums and the substacs of the world, it's like, well, when you're minting your writing or your blog posts, your essays, whatever it is, this is also being minted on top of the Zora Protocol.
01:22:32.190 - 01:23:41.118, Speaker H: And again, it's like a very different experience to catalog. I think what we're trying to help bootstrap and help teams build over time is look, well, what are the unique social media experiences, marketplaces experiences, or niche markets that we can help bring into fruition? So if you wanted to build a meme specific auction house, then you can do that. If you wanted to create a market just for music samples or stems or typefaces or code snippets or 3D objects, or name any form of information or data or file type, you can mint and create a very rich and unique experience. And then you can start to integrate and curate across all of these different places because you're built on a shared and open layer. And again, we're starting to see very early examples of what this type of ecosystem looks like. We've got radio stations. Someone builds like a TikTok based interface on media, on the protocol, virtual worlds, interesting text, collectible experiences.
01:23:41.118 - 01:24:42.662, Speaker H: And then we had someone in the Zora community build a Zora interface before we even did. We deployed the protocol a month before Zora Co went live. And we saw someone in the community just build their own interface on top of it because everything is completely open, which was like a really cool moment for us, so to speak, to some of the things that the Zora Protocol unlocks. Now that you have these trustless markets, it meaningfully unlocks trustless Dows and all of these interesting use cases. So if you think about a Dao minting Azora NFT, now the Dao is directly interacting with and has the opportunity to accept bids. So today, if you construct a Dow, and we did this with St fame, you like, mint an NFT because the markets kind of on a per marketplace basis, you need to figure out how the Dow can interact with that marketplace. And in many cases, there's just no direct tie to do it.
01:24:42.662 - 01:26:29.226, Speaker H: Now, if you mint an NFT with the market built in, if there's, say, a bid for $1,000, the Dow can trustlessly vote to accept that bid. And if it does accept that bid, the funds can then trustlessly be put into that Dow's treasury or distributed to token holders, or can then be used to do any collective action with. And these dows just to give you kind of a sense of a visual, these dows can be governed by obviously a token, but they're starting to manage any amount of NFTs and can trustlessly accrue the value from the activities around those things. So you can see like well, what if you have artist collectives that are now collectively minting under a single name or a single collective identity? What if you have dows that are now collecting as a community so you can have our hip hop, one of the largest subreddits. Well, what if they were able to pull together capital and they could start commissioning and bidding on and collecting NFTs as a community and they can choose to vote to then accept bids, put it up for auction and they can trustlessly then create and accrue that value together and distribute that value. And there's like amazing early examples of this like flamingo. But the trustless nature of the protocol now means it's like well, it's very simple and straightforward to create an open template that anyone can now start creating it on a per community basis, which drives us to these very interesting notions of community ownership, both for dows that want to collectively create and curate and collect together, but also lets you layer community ownership into the platform levels themselves.
01:26:29.226 - 01:27:51.540, Speaker H: So if you think about the catalogs of the world with their music, it's like well, if they're facilitating these auctions and curating as a community and curating as a platform, it's very easily to programmably route the value capture from those platforms as a community and distribute it to everyone who is using those platforms in marketplaces. So we truly think we are entering into an internet renaissance one because we're actually getting a step close to what the internet actually was supposed to be. We're exiting this massive intranet era and heading into a world where it's like well, anyone can create content that is platformless and can stand on its own right, accrue its own value and is entirely interoperable, universally accessible and open to everyone. So our view is that the social media platforms as we know it are dead. It will take a very long time for them to entirely go away. But there are very direct incentives and I think a general want for people to we all know and feel that well, if we're on Instagram or YouTube, we can kind of feel that it's not entirely our own space or it's like you have to wade through the ads. And the way that value capture in these platforms, the way that they are constructed, are just totally at ODS with what information wants to be which wants to be free.
01:27:51.540 - 01:28:55.302, Speaker H: So our view is that the mega platforms are no more and they will be replaced by public permissionless protocols that are open and accessible to everyone, not just accessible to the platforms who are kind of constructing these huge wall gardens and that there are now the tools for creators and communities to be their own platform. And you can be your own or build your own or do whatever you want because the starting state or the barrier to entry to now start a valuable platform is so much lower. You no longer have to compete and catch up to the entire content database of Instagram or TikTok. You can now build on top of and stand on the shoulders of all of the content and media. And now it comes down to, well, how do you want to curate, how do you want to present and experience all of that content? You no longer have to build and catch up to that content. You can just start from there and start to really experiment and create your own rich and unique experiences. And that's only possible when you have entirely public and permissionless infrastructure.
01:28:55.302 - 01:29:55.900, Speaker H: Whenever you have permissioned or central control, the incentives eventually get skewed towards defending that value capture mechanism versus if it's public and permissionless by design. No one can really stop you or stop anyone from building or creating in the ways that you want or can change the terms of how you're creating on that infrastructure. So for us, it was critical that when we deployed the Zora Protocol, it was open source, fully audited, twice verified, and deployed in a way that was unstoppable. So if we ever wanted to do an upgrade to Azora V Two, we couldn't just flick a switch at the smart contract level and force everyone to upgrade. We would have to create an entirely new instance and provide the option or the path for people to move across, but only if they wanted to. Zora V One can never be changed, upgraded or stopped. It'll always live there as an option that is public and accessible to everyone.
01:29:55.900 - 01:30:47.038, Speaker H: So yeah, if you want to learn more about the SDKs and tools that we've built to make it easy to interact with it, this is the kind of starting point Zoro engineering. We have the white paper, the protocol source code, links to the GitHub, and then a subgraph and JavaScript tools for you to interact with the protocol. Also join us in discord. So Zora community, if you just go to that link, it'll take you into our Discord. And we've got channels there where you can learn about the protocol, ask developer questions, and just interact with the creative community that's growing there. And then to kind of explore everything that's happening across the protocol. Zora Co is kind of this general explorer and open marketplace that is letting you interact directly with everything.
01:30:47.038 - 01:31:40.190, Speaker H: So that's where you can see exactly what's being minted, who's bidding on what. You can see everything from there. And yeah, it's kind of just like a bird's eye view of the way we think about different parts of the stack that we're building out. So there's the protocol itself, the OS, so the SDK, and then of course, the interface, the open source interface and open interface for everyone to look into and explore everything that's happening across the protocol. And our long term goal, and the thing we're driving towards is that everyone is interacting with Zora everywhere but Zora. If we're just creating a huge mega marketplace that everyone has to go to, to Mint and share and exchange all of these NFTs, then we've failed. Like, we want there to be millions of marketplaces that is fundamentally powering the Internet itself.
01:31:40.190 - 01:32:05.218, Speaker H: So the Zora is successful when it's everywhere but Zora co or most used everywhere outside of yeah, that is kind of the end. And yeah, I don't know if there are questions in the chat or if, dee, you wanted to add some color on as well, but yeah, it's the start of the Internet renaissance. No, I think that was pretty perfect.
01:32:05.384 - 01:32:51.678, Speaker B: Amazing. Jacob, Dee, thank you so much. I'll kind of just ask you to just disable the screen share so people can say hi, and a lot of people are questioning who these amazing speakers are. And one thing I really want to kind of just point out is that I think this was a good overview of essentially how NFTs are inverted, just how we think about business models and communities. And I think you did a really amazing job in setting up the base for the rest of the talks we have planned for today. So there are a lot of questions, but I will ask you to do is address them on the TV page alive and we'll bring you back on later if you have time and do more of a live riff. So, again, super excited to be working with all of you here and we'll talk to everybody on Discord.
01:32:51.854 - 01:32:54.840, Speaker H: Sounds good. All right, thanks, everyone. Thanks, guys.
01:32:55.450 - 01:33:33.890, Speaker B: Next up, I want to really kick off our next talk, and I'm super excited for this one, and that is we're super excited to welcome Gary Vaynerchuk, who is a serial entrepreneur. He serves as the chairman of Vaynerax and he's currently the CEO of VaynerMedia. He's widely regarded as a really big person in defining what next Internet culture is and just the relevance of how social and Internet makes everything different for us. Interviewing Gary will be Jacob Wolmsma from the ETH global team. And Jacob and Gary are going to talk about collectibles NFTs and his views on the future of the space. So without further ado, please welcome Gary and Jacob.
01:33:35.830 - 01:33:37.746, Speaker H: Gary, thanks so much for being here.
01:33:37.848 - 01:34:01.946, Speaker A: So happy to be here, Jacob. And hi, everybody who's watching. I said this once in 2009 at a social media conference. If you are watching this right now, for the majority of people, a lot of this is old news and this has probably been a four or five year thing. But let there be no confusion. You are disproportionately ahead of the game. And I hope there's a lot of happiness and challenges and interest with that.
01:34:01.946 - 01:34:04.874, Speaker A: And so I'm very honored to be here and thank you for having me.
01:34:05.072 - 01:34:20.100, Speaker H: Thank you. Yeah, I mean, maybe that's a good place to start. Would love to kind of maybe learn a little bit more about sort know how long you've been thinking about the space. I know you've been talking a lot about NFTs recently on your podcast, on YouTube and everything. When was your interest peaked? Like, when did you kind of take a look?
01:34:23.750 - 01:35:09.886, Speaker A: The journey is in 2016. A gentleman by name of Aaron Battalion and a tremendous technologist CTO of living, social and just somebody I'd really admire of being an incredible nerd AK really technically sound, but intuitive consumer behavior, which is obviously where I live. And so we would always have these jam sessions at south by Southwest. And I bought Bitcoin in 14 and this was 16 south by and he started explaining ethereum to me and my brain went into, oh, this is interesting. This is platform, not currency. And I'm not a financier. Like, I to this day, I'm all about NFT life and all my friends that want me to get excited about currencies, I get it.
01:35:09.886 - 01:36:11.090, Speaker A: And I'm like to me, it's not like doge this or Bitcoin this or altcoin to the moon that. It's just not as interesting to me. The same reason I don't buy a lot of currencies or trade or even stocks on the public market. Whereas t shirts and garage saleing and sports um, and then there's the things that will go into deeper beyond the art and collectibles of NFT life that I think the smart contract to access and touching and feeling things and experiences you want. So that access and part of the smart contracts that excite me. So anyway, I bought a bunch of ethereum in 16 in the same way that I'm looking at VR today, which is it's looming, but it's not prime time for every person in Kansas. That's my game.
01:36:11.090 - 01:37:03.310, Speaker A: I'm listening and watching and know. I always hate when I enter a new space at this point in my career because I have the baggage of my career. And so I've been trying to be very thoughtful about that because I get upset when I do something and I'm so appreciative. I'm humbled that people even this beautiful introduction, I understand that I've done nice and well, but I always think I'm only as good as my new at bat. And if I come into this space and I'm a clown and I'm wrong, it erases everything I've ever done. You're only as good as your next day, right? So I've come in somewhere around February, March, April COVID time. I'm like, Wait a minute, that NFT thing that I've kind of like really far away.
01:37:03.310 - 01:37:25.050, Speaker A: I know what CryptoKitties are. I remember looking at that carefully. This is starting to. Happen a little bit. And then I had a conversation with Roham from Dapper and TOPSHOT and like, huh. And I was in the heat of my sports card thing. Physical.
01:37:25.050 - 01:38:00.338, Speaker A: That's interesting. And then the fall came. And all this time what really fucked me up was know, a lot of times people forget for all my loud mouth tactics and putting out tons of content, I'm the active CEO of a 1300 person global company. And it's client service. It's not even like Tech 1300, which is a hell of a lot easier to manage. You're just fucking getting bombarded by people. So Navigating being the captain of really rocky waters during COVID And then I decided with Michael Rubin from Fanatics to do the all in challenge.
01:38:00.338 - 01:38:38.194, Speaker A: And we raised $60 million to help people that were hungry during COVID So I have 0.0 minutes March to August to what I wanted to do, which was like, why is my spidey senses? Then the fall came. We navigated all that trauma and I actually saw offense for Vayner X for 2021. So then I got suckered again into putting in extra hours towards, wait a minute, I could set up a nice year for us. That's probably a good idea. Then it was late, late December. I feel like I've got that all accomplished and I'm like, okay, I'm going to really dig in now.
01:38:38.194 - 01:39:06.074, Speaker A: And I started doing real homework and I started having some friends that I started kind of DMing quietly some friends. Kevin Rose was instrumental got into the founder of Dig, truly Web 2.0. Him and I spent a ton of time talking about it. He was instrumental in like, check out Flamingo. Check out this. I'm going to introduce you to Matt for Crypto Pug. I'm like, okay.
01:39:06.074 - 01:39:47.942, Speaker A: It just started feeling 2005 to me. Then I put out a little piece of content or two, which allowed me with my awareness these days to make some new friends. Jeff Holmberg, I just have to give him a shout out kid that I spent a lot of times talking about crypto punks and hash masks with. And I'm a learner from the bottom up. I can't learn from like a tech backwards place I have to go from what are humans doing? And then I go backwards up. I'll learn about level two issues by understanding, trying to buy something and being like, what the fuck is this gas shit? That's how I learned. And what my big advantage is, is I understand people cold.
01:39:47.942 - 01:40:11.470, Speaker A: That's my strength. And so the last four months have been two 304:00 in the morning, canceling important shit and taking another thing. You and I met that way. I'm just taking me there. I'm just trying to be part of the community. I got excited, I started talking. Then I was like, shit, I have to start talking way more about what this moment really is, which is the technology is forever.
01:40:11.470 - 01:40:55.262, Speaker A: Internet 2000, some of the stocks. The projects are incredibly overpriced, and there will be absolutely in this world's terms, ICO crashing culture. And so I've been trying to put that content out there so people are being thoughtful. I've been learning a lot more about wrapping and forking and burning, and I've really enjoyed it. And so I come to this talk a incredibly humble and knowing I'm in the middle of my journey on the consumer side, like what people are going to do. I have a flag of conviction that is as large as anything, which is NFT culture is here for the rest of my entire life. There is 0.0
01:40:55.262 - 01:41:10.194, Speaker A: doubt. I've only felt like this twice in my life. 1994, when I heard the Internet for the first time. Cook that. And I'm like, in a day, I'm like, this is going to change my life. And sure enough, I'm not building 500 liquor stores for my dad anymore. I'm going to do this winelibary.com
01:41:10.194 - 01:41:39.500, Speaker A: thing. And then Friendster MySpace, it was a little bit more of a slow burn, but it was definitely when Eric Castner, my lead developer@winelibrary.com, started making me read TechCrunch. And I was and boom, you know, YouTube, he showed me actually, that's not true. There was a single moment Eric shows me YouTube, and he goes, remember four years ago when you were like, can I stream wine videos on our website? And I told you it was $8 trillion and only two people would watch, and you were like, no. I'm like yes. He's like, well, now you can do it for free on this thing.
01:41:39.500 - 01:42:14.354, Speaker A: That was in 2005. And then February 2006, I started Wine Library TV, which really changed my life because that's what made me use Twitter and Facebook to promote that show. And then I became a practitioner. The only other time I felt that way was somewhere here in January. Really only two months ago when I did enough homework of, like, it went from spidey senses to my life is going to change. And that's what I fully believe as I sit here now. It took me a decade to learn a lot of tech, to talk the way I talk today about Web 20, social, the Internet.
01:42:14.354 - 01:42:52.354, Speaker A: I still have plenty to learn about blockchain. I'm sure I'll say things in the wrong terminologies and things of that nature, those things are irrelevant to me, meaning I have the humility to be corrected. And I love everybody in the community. I have the patience to learn some of the real core things I'll need to just I always like to be just dangerous enough so I'm not an idiot. But where I spend 100% of my time and 110% of my time is, why are people going to do this? How is this going to affect somebody who's selling their home? Can they put this on the ledger and make a vig every time this home sold? In the beginning? How am I going to launch my book. Wait a minute. Music artists can do this.
01:42:52.392 - 01:42:52.834, Speaker H: Wait a minute.
01:42:52.872 - 01:43:06.538, Speaker A: Who was the first Providence? I understand that completely. That's everything. That's social currency. Why do people wear gold watches? Same reason they're going to buy this. Does the blue check mean anything on Instagram? It sure does. Of course. Can I take a picture into JPEG? Who gives a fuck? You don't actually own it.
01:43:06.538 - 01:43:11.626, Speaker A: And in 13 years, everyone's going to actually look to see who owns that's where I play my game.
01:43:11.808 - 01:43:13.318, Speaker H: Got it? Totally.
01:43:13.414 - 01:43:14.058, Speaker B: Yeah.
01:43:14.224 - 01:43:33.182, Speaker H: I think it's been amazing to see you use your platform in, I think, a really positive way and kind of bring people into this fold and kind of the mindworm that all of us, I think, have been thinking about over the last couple of years. And yeah, I think you do this in such a genuine way comes across really well. So really appreciate you helping out there, Jacob.
01:43:33.326 - 01:43:57.190, Speaker A: If everybody really knew me and were inside my chemicals, if they understood you, who you are in this space, and I consider, like, this authentic crew, to me, people that were really active November 1, 2020 back are really part of a crew that's different than, let's say, February 1, 2021. Right?
01:43:57.340 - 01:43:57.842, Speaker B: Totally.
01:43:57.906 - 01:44:16.910, Speaker A: I've lived that twice in my life. That was when I decided to learn what the Internet was at all. And boy, were those tech nerds. And then I met them again in 2005. They were just different. People don't understand what Silicon Valley looked like in 3456. It was so different than the status that it has now.
01:44:16.910 - 01:44:59.290, Speaker A: And I think I see a lot of those characters again in this world now. The Internet is so much more mature and accepted mainstream. That the juxtaposition of culture, pop culture, fame, non fame. It's different, but it's still the same, which is much like a band that goes on to become Pearl Jam. That early crew feels a relationship to the technology and the movement that must be respected by people like me that come along, and that is my number one KPI. You saying that to me is much more important to me than me doing business well with this platform. So thank you for saying that.
01:44:59.440 - 01:45:33.078, Speaker H: No, I appreciate it. You said you kind of come to this with a little bit of baggage, but I mean, I want to talk about kind know you've had decades of experience of trading trading cards, right? Like sports cards and that kind of, you know, collectibles is one of those pieces on the NFT world that is really coming into position right now. I mean, TOPSHOT is huge. You talked about Roham, who's talking later in the summit today, about TOPSHOT and Dapper in general, I guess kind of curious about sort of what are your thoughts about the future of the collectible piece and how do you see that sort of coming onto chain and beyond? Just top shots right now.
01:45:33.164 - 01:46:39.146, Speaker A: And by the way, to your point, I use baggage as a slang term to an incredible gift that I'm given, which is I have notoriety and respect. And of course, that comes along with razzing and people think, I'm sure, and I get that. But for the most part, what I mean by that is I can't do what I did in 2005, which was and six, which is go to six aparts blog and ask a question. Or in 2007, being on Twitter, like I didn't have the clout, reputation, personal brand, whatever one wants to call it. And what I mean by that is when I say baggage, I use it as, hey, I think too many people are coming into the space acting like tough guys and tough gals, like they know shit. And I'm trying to come in like, hey, I do have conviction of a couple of things I see comma. I'm not trying to come in here like there's a million people on Twitter that are OGS that can run circles around me on the understanding of the technology of blockchain and crypto and things of that nature where I feel incredibly confident is what people are going to do.
01:46:39.146 - 01:46:52.766, Speaker A: And that's why I'll go to this part. Let me go to a place on collectibles that I have not heard people talk about. I have a lot of experience in that. Thank you. I also have a lot of experience in something else that a lot of people know me for, which is garage sailing.
01:46:52.958 - 01:46:53.410, Speaker I: Right?
01:46:53.480 - 01:47:57.302, Speaker A: And I actually believe that the garage sailing part of me has more insight than even the sports card version of me. And let me explain. When I go garage sailing, I buy things based on knowing that people have nostalgia and pop culture in their blood. And so when I buy a New York City bus pass that has the World Trade Center picture on it, I know there's no inherent real massive value. Or when I buy Huckleberry Hound in a stuffed animal from Knickerbocker, the stuffed animal toy company, for $3 without even looking at on ebay, I already know that's 40 $50. Now, let me tell you why that story is important. There's going to be in the advancements? I'm going a little further and beyond collectibles what I believe is going to happen, I'm sure, given the nature of where we are in the lifecycle of NFTs and who's in this conference outside of the people that just came in from my tweet that are probably going through learning.
01:47:57.302 - 01:48:38.660, Speaker A: There's a lot of people here that I think most of the audience here could be giving the talk. That's just what happens in the beginning, which I respect tremendously. I think everybody knows and is probably frustrated when everyone's so fixated just on collectibles and art when we're talking about. And by the way, I felt this with ecommerce and social media, people get fixated on the first thing that makes even any level of sense to them. And then one of those things become the conversation. I mean, I remember when people talked about the internet in 95, 96 only from the lens of browsers and search engines. There wasn't any conversation around ecommerce because a lot of the early tech people weren't merchants like I was.
01:48:38.660 - 01:49:06.282, Speaker A: So for me, the reason I bring up the garage sale thing is the following. I'll use myself as an example. I'm going to use a concert. I'm going to use Coachella. Coachella has bracelets, physical bracelets. There's nobody here watching this right now that's not confused or confused. That in 1512, seven, six, three years, that becomes a token and it works.
01:49:06.282 - 01:49:11.674, Speaker A: And I can't wait to see token readers and wallet. There's so much fun innovation coming right?
01:49:11.792 - 01:49:12.620, Speaker H: For sure.
01:49:13.090 - 01:50:06.026, Speaker A: Smart contracts that check off that you use, it's going to be so cool, right. What I know though, as garage sale Gary, is seven years later somebody's going to buy the first. If it goes on that festival becomes Coachella. Somebody's going to buy that token the same way I would buy the bracelet at a garage sale for twenty five cents and sell it on ebay for $19. I know that tokens that are really not collectibles and arts, but representations of smart contracts are going to have a secondary market at a scale that most people haven't made the chess move connections on. And that is going to be incredible because that is going to lead to incredible behavior at the IP level. To try to do thoughtfulness for the audience, to create that economic aspect.
01:50:06.026 - 01:50:47.018, Speaker A: The economic aspect of that is going to actually force leagues, musicians, festivals, things to actually care more about their customer. Right now we're in the golden era, Jacob, of the people launching projects that really don't give a fuck about their audience at all. It's a fast money grab. I'm going to draw something, a picture of me or fucking something that represents me. I'm going to mint 10,000 of them. And because right now and they're going to make some real money, I mean, we've seen some athletes and make real money. What I know is going to happen on the other side is the people that are holding the bag of that collectible have overpaid so much, no different than Pets.com
01:50:47.018 - 01:51:17.462, Speaker A: or Etoys.com as a stock. That doesn't mean NFTs are not going to be the game changing thing of this generation. It just means that project is not. And what you're seeing is short term transactional behavior right now of people land grabbing for quick bags. But what they're actually going to do is hurt their brand. Because there's going to be some fans on the other side that are sad that they paid $3,000 for ownership of an NFT, but now the market says it's $17, aka Beanie Babies, right?
01:51:17.596 - 01:51:18.178, Speaker H: Totally.
01:51:18.274 - 01:51:52.242, Speaker A: So I'm worried about that for everybody in this cycle that the person that's buying it and gets held with the bag. But I'm actually worried about it equally for they deserve it because they weren't thoughtful. But it doesn't mean I don't have compassion to somebody who doesn't really there's some people, because I've talked to a bunch of celebrities, IP, they don't even realize they're doing bad things for an audience. They're delusional. They don't understand supply and demand and the moment we're in so they probably in a lot of them. I could tell I've had the combos. They actually think they're going to do well, like, oh, someone's going to pay $88,000 for this and one day it's going to be worth 2 million.
01:51:52.242 - 01:52:26.806, Speaker A: I'm like, first of all, your ego is insane. Second of all, you're very much misunderstanding what's about to happen, which is the tokenization of everything. Do you know how much supply that is? It's no different than influencers, jacob right? Influencer marketing. I was right in 2009 when I wrote Crush It and you have the Logan Paul's and the Charlie Demilio's, but there are tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of people making $50 to $200,000 a year being an influencer instead of an accountant or gardener and loving life. That's going to happen with NFT. That's going to happen with artists. That's going to happen in a lot of places.
01:52:26.806 - 01:52:52.050, Speaker A: So I don't know. I think there's a lot of thoughtfulness that needs to come to the market. Here's my thoughts. It is the game changer for collectibles, arts and pretty much everything in the world. There will be incredible layers of bubbles and no different. It's like the stock market was invented and there'll be plenty of IBMS and GES and Amazons and there'll be plenty of Enrons.
01:52:52.390 - 01:52:55.374, Speaker H: There will be stock, right? Totally.
01:52:55.422 - 01:53:28.666, Speaker A: I think we all know personal brands are going to do things. I'll give you an example. This is maybe an extreme example, but if NFTs have been around for 60 years, somebody might have done incredibly well with OJ. Simpson investing when he was in a high school football player and he put out his NFTs and they were the rookie cards in 1991. You look like a genius who bought something for $3. It's now $7 trillion and then boom, a moment happens. There's a lot of things that are going to happen with these NFTs, but I think the macro is incredible.
01:53:28.666 - 01:54:17.546, Speaker A: And I think when you have people like, I'm glad Rohan's coming. What he built with tapper and flow and TOPSHOT, incredible. I think he'll add a lot to that conversation. But my big thing is that we also are now at a place where I as a 45 year old man, would rather wear cool sneakers, have comic books that are graded to ten, own video games still in the box, graded sports cards, wear hoodies, wear T shirts. Like, the culture is becoming more collectible, nerd fun. The investment portfolio of a 45 year old man with my wealth 20 years ago was real estate and stocks very pori. I have more in sports cards, comic books, toys, NFTs that I think is not going to stop, and I think that's going to lead to a lot more demand than people are anticipating.
01:54:17.738 - 01:54:29.202, Speaker H: Very cool. Yeah, I think that totally makes sense. I mean, just the number of assets that people are looking at every day, it's an order of magazine more than it was even like ten years ago.
01:54:29.256 - 01:54:29.474, Speaker B: Right.
01:54:29.512 - 01:54:31.186, Speaker H: And I think there's no way that's going to stop.
01:54:31.288 - 01:54:57.370, Speaker A: It's not going to stop, and people enjoy it. I enjoy absolutely my Crypto punk more than my Tesla stock. I enjoy my Super Mario Brothers in mint condition more than I enjoy my part ownership with my dad in the real estate at that part. The mixing of experiences and NFT Smart contracts is going to be game changing.
01:54:57.870 - 01:55:15.554, Speaker H: Absolutely. Well, maybe a good place to go here. I mean, this is going to be a hackathon, right. We're going to have 600 people building stuff all weekend and hopefully 150 or so projects by Sunday. What do you think is missing from the ecosystem right now? Or what do you want to see built? Right.
01:55:15.752 - 01:55:47.918, Speaker A: First, I want everybody who does something cool to DM me at Gary B e on Twitter because I want to see it perfect. I want to see real life readers. I want to be able to create NFTs that create hall passes in real life. And I want to be able to read your wallet physically like a scanner at a venue and then it marks off the ledger that's been used. Like, I want that. I know there's the roadblocks right now for that. I'm not naive enough, but if you're talking about what's missing, that's definitely coming.
01:55:48.004 - 01:55:49.710, Speaker H: That totally.
01:55:53.170 - 01:56:04.718, Speaker A: I'm very fascinated about the royalties changing based on you paying a different price. Just throwing out some random shit right now to get some thinking going.
01:56:04.804 - 01:56:05.426, Speaker H: Good. Yeah.
01:56:05.448 - 01:56:50.698, Speaker A: I just think, like, when you buy something, could you lower its royalty by paying more for it up front like that? I think that's kind of cool. The physical, I like what the artifacts people are doing. I'm a big both and guy. I think there's this war right now of or like, no, I'm going to still buy this shit, and I'm going to buy a ton of. So anybody who can capture things that create an ecosystem for and let me throw an old world problem at it. Can somebody create the operating system for warehouses that can take on all the physical versions of the digital? In a world where a lot of people want to stay anonymous and don't even want to take ownership of the physical, I'm thinking about yeah. custodials.
01:56:50.698 - 01:57:07.110, Speaker A: Thank you. That's interesting. To me, that's like a boring tech operating system that can turn old warehouses into something very valuable. That might be fun. Oh, I've got a big one. Actually, I need this one. I want somebody to create the communication layer.
01:57:07.110 - 01:57:28.522, Speaker A: I'm going to launch a project. I want to be able to talk every day to my 4000 people in a decentralized way and not have to force them into a discord or something. I want to be able to say right this second, I launched a project. I want to say hello to somebody. So in wallet communication structure, I think is huge.
01:57:28.656 - 01:57:30.042, Speaker H: Like on the spot community.
01:57:30.176 - 01:57:44.740, Speaker A: Yeah. I want to just basically be like, yo, thank you again for supporting my thing. Or all of you. Right now, here's a link. Like, I want to support my thing and a lot of good things are happening. I want to communicate to them. That's huge for me, actually.
01:57:44.740 - 01:57:54.870, Speaker A: That to me is how you start the social networks, the reddits, the discords of the world in this game. Let's talk to the people that bought my shit.
01:57:55.210 - 01:58:00.438, Speaker H: Yeah, it's amazing to see the communities that have formed around CryptoPunks or hashmax or everything.
01:58:00.604 - 01:58:04.790, Speaker A: But that's because discord link on the site, dude. You get it? I'm talking.
01:58:04.860 - 01:58:05.718, Speaker H: It can just happen.
01:58:05.804 - 01:58:29.600, Speaker A: Yeah, because don't forget, four years later, I'm not following where these transactions have gone. I might get a little money and I know what's happening, but I don't know that Jacob sold it to Kardik. And when I want to do something for the people that own my shit right now, I want cardik there, not Jacob, because he went into my discord, but no longer owns it. So that to me, is huge.
01:58:30.290 - 01:58:32.094, Speaker H: Totally. Now I can see that.
01:58:32.212 - 01:58:54.600, Speaker A: All right, folks, I have to go. Yeah, I know what you're thank you. You're being stopped at 130. But I just looked, I'm like, fuck. By the way, anybody who's watching this, please hit me up on Twitter to just say hello. The word I would use is desperate and honored to be a tiny piece of this community and want to make more friends and would love to get anybody's thoughts on anything they heard. And I definitely want to see if Kardik thought I said anything interesting before I leave.
01:58:55.130 - 01:58:56.790, Speaker H: You want to jump in, Kartik?
01:58:57.210 - 01:59:20.430, Speaker B: No. I want to say I think the coolest part of this is that I think we're finally getting to the piece where people are thinking about it from what the interaction looks like for the end consumer of that content, whatever that may be, whether that's art or a way to integrate into a community. And I think this is kind of the right way to think about it. Because what you're talking about is how do we actually make this valuable for the end user? It doesn't matter how the tech is set up.
01:59:20.500 - 01:59:21.070, Speaker A: Correct.
01:59:21.220 - 01:59:23.726, Speaker B: That's what gets to the millions.
01:59:23.918 - 01:59:58.694, Speaker A: That's why I'm going to win. Just so you know. Not because I came in with because what made, quote unquote, Gary Vee was I was a liquor store son of a liquor store owner with a 40 person watching YouTube show. And once I understood social, immediately, I just did what I did in real life, which is if I can bring more value to them than I ask for in return. And that is going to be the winning formula in the NFT, because we're talking about economies and communities here, the end at scale. And that's the know. That's why I'm probably getting do you see the goosebumps?
01:59:58.742 - 01:59:59.674, Speaker H: Oh, wow, look at that.
01:59:59.712 - 02:00:32.200, Speaker A: Isn't that cool? No, but really, I literally called my mom and said, NFT is the manifestation of my life's work and I'm in the prime of my life to take advantage and to contribute to it. Do you know what that feels like to me? Like, to your point? You know how thoughtfully serious I was taking the words that came out of my mouth in the last 30 minutes? We're still early. I have this place in the ecosystem, a different ecosystem, web Two, not this Web Three thing, but it still carries. And if I can deliver 30 minutes of thoughtfulness here, it can be meaningful, and I'm very honored by that.
02:00:34.090 - 02:00:48.986, Speaker B: Gary, love the no bullshit opinion on everything and the right kind of direct view on this. And I think I'm just checking out the chat here. There's a lot of comments on people just agreeing with a lot of things you've said and that means a lot.
02:00:49.008 - 02:00:53.662, Speaker A: To me from this community. Please hit me up on Twitter, folks, because I have meetings and I want to see some things. Bye, everyone.
02:00:53.716 - 02:00:54.462, Speaker H: Thank you so much.
02:00:54.516 - 02:00:54.734, Speaker B: Thanks.
02:00:54.772 - 02:00:56.142, Speaker H: So care.
02:00:56.276 - 02:01:34.278, Speaker B: Thanks, Jacob. And I mean, that was great. I think we got to figure out a way to get Gary back in and have a much longer conversation. So thanks, Jacob and thanks, Gary, and for all you that have questions, we'll find a way to get them answered after this. So I want to move on to our next talk. I think I was thinking about how do I think about doing really good segues and transitions into how we change themes or topics, but it turns out that everybody's just automatically making it easy for me by already setting up what the next talk should be about. So you just talked about what this actually means in a social context and how do we actually get people to care at scale.
02:01:34.278 - 02:02:27.082, Speaker B: And this kind of brings up for our next really? I'm super excited to welcome Dylan Field from Figma and Tubador from Metaverse to really kind of share their opinions on some of the recent events that have happened in the space. We're going to be talking about at a high level, what the value of NFTs are or is. And there's a lot of things going on here, so we'll see whatever we can fit into this ecosystem in the next 30 minutes. And without further ado, let's kick off this incredible talk. So we have dylan and Tubador, thank you so much for joining us. Not only is it amazing to have you from both of your respective communities, but it's also an honor to do our summit with this anonymous person. This is kind of the world that we are jumping into and that kind of excites me a lot more because this is new to a bunch of us and just great.
02:02:27.082 - 02:02:37.582, Speaker B: So welcome. And what I want to do is I want to just ask each of you to introduce yourself and just kind of give us some context into how you got into crypto and NFTs. And I'll start maybe with Dylan. Yeah.
02:02:37.636 - 02:03:17.180, Speaker I: Well, Kartik, first of all, thanks for having me and I'm really excited for this conversation. How got into crypto? I had been really interested in cryptography in middle school and high school, and I'd done some lectures online about hash functions. And people had been reaching out to me in the very early days of bitcoin about crypto. Unfortunately, I thought they were insane and so ignored the messages. And then I joined the TL Fellowship community, and as a TL fellow, people were really excited about crypto as well. I also thought they're insane. And so it took me a few revs to get to the point where I started to get very interested and very involved in the crypto community.
02:03:17.180 - 02:03:52.760, Speaker I: And that's, I think, why I flipped all the harder when I finally did in my day job, my night job. To be fair, I'm CEO and co founder of Figma, and I really care about how to make it so that everyone is able to be creative and how to make it so that more people are able to participate in the digital economy. And I think that crypto and NFTs and Figma to me, kind of all go under the same umbrella in terms of how do you enable creativity and how do you enable sovereignty, and so, yeah, I'm very excited to discuss today. Thank you.
02:03:55.210 - 02:04:11.760, Speaker B: I was with Dylan on a clubhouse chat. The good time show with RT and Sriram. I should have learned my lesson then. This guy's a tough act to follow under any circumstance, so I should have gone first. And Karthik, I'm not a pseudonym. It's just that I look exactly like my avatar. That's totally fair.
02:04:11.760 - 02:04:48.950, Speaker B: What you see is what you mean. I love telling the story of how I got into this space, and only recently because it says very different things to different people. Right. If you're a left brain person, my story feels like a series of lost opportunities and finally finding your group. But for a right brain person, he thinks, oh, wow, okay, I can skip the first three years of this guy's crypto life and jump straight into the NFT space because that's what it allows. That's practically my story. I was introduced to crypto by Metacovan, who was an app developer and a serial entrepreneur.
02:04:48.950 - 02:05:05.902, Speaker B: So the. First conversation we had, he spoke about Bitcoin. He used a lot of words. I understood all of those words individually. I had no idea what he was talking about. And we didn't speak for the next three years. And that might have been on purpose in some sense.
02:05:05.902 - 02:05:32.498, Speaker B: But a few years later, somewhere in 2016, he had a couple of enterprises under his belt. He'd done escrow services. He'd installed like 100 bitcoin ATMs all over the world. And then he came back and said, let's do lendroid. And so I jumped on that ship. So I did DeFi for a few years with Vignesh. But then during the pandemic, it sort of pushed all of us inward into the metaverse.
02:05:32.498 - 02:06:05.810, Speaker B: And that's when I truly mean like Gary, we put it right sometimes NFTs, when you interact with them, they feel like, okay, you found your life's purpose in some sense. And that's not because of any how to say it is actually quite profound. It's because NFTs are experience at the end of it, and you start to feel them and they're so vivid and they're so real. And me, I'm a wordsmith for a living. I write for a living. I communicate for a living. Finally I was able to sort of start talking in color, start communicating in color.
02:06:05.810 - 02:06:45.774, Speaker B: And that really blew my mind. I was able to connect with people and this pseudonym that you see in front of you, it sort of dropped into that space without any baggage, with just a whole bunch of metaverse to explore. And that's when the metaphors journey also started. So long story short for left brain people, a bunch of lost opportunities and finally finding you. Right brain people, take note. If you want to jump into crypto, start with the NFTs, skip the rest. No, that's an amazing intro and maybe so I had a bunch of questions prepared, but I feel like I'm going to have to just throw a bunch of that out of the window because there's just going to be a lot more just things that will come from your answer.
02:06:45.774 - 02:07:37.054, Speaker B: So we'll just dig in and go into it directly. So what I'll do is I want to start off with actually with YouTube adore. So metacov and yourself made a bit of news a couple of weeks ago by buying and winning the Beeple's 1st 5000 Days artwork and purchasing it for a little over $69 million. I actually want the audience watching to you a little bit, kind of hear about how you actually made that decision to sort of get into this. You've talked about being a fan of Beagle for not just from a few weeks ago, but from late lasting. Just walk us through what made you interested in his work, how you decided to think about owning that as our piece and how that historic moment altogether just came to be from your okay. Yeah, I mean, I guess I did see a few tweets on my timeline about that.
02:07:37.054 - 02:08:04.390, Speaker B: So bit of news. Metacovin and I metaphors was like it's sort of a coalescence of both of our thesis about the NFD space. That fellow has been collecting NFDS culturally and culturally significant NFDS since early 2017. He started with decentraland. He's now the largest estate owner, single estate owner in Decentraland. He has the Delta time. Triple One.
02:08:04.390 - 02:09:15.038, Speaker B: He has the First Supper on Async Art, which is the first work of programmable art. He has an urban galaxy and so on and so forth. He's been collecting for a while, but then somewhere down the line, around March, April, May, when I started to sort of interact with the creators and the artists in the space, our thesis about NFTs being this catalyst, this touchstone for everything, crypto started to converge and that's how Metaphors was born. So after a while, when we started to think about this, theses how do we power this engine that we have of NFTs? How do we take it to the next level out of the blue? And this is where Serendipity works in Crypto, right? People reached out to Metacovan out of the blue and he said, hey man, I'm doing this, are you interested? And the weirdest part is that people reached out because Metacovan was a losing bidder in his first Nifty gateway auction. He didn't get the piece. That one went for, I think, $60,000 or something, and Metacovan lost that bid and he just reached out as a whole and then it clicked. So the shift here was two things.
02:09:15.038 - 02:09:58.042, Speaker B: One, the thesis that the future of the NFT space depends on creating experiences around these NFTs. The Cambrian explosion that we're seeing right now is only the acquisition phase, right? People are gobbling up NFDS trying to acquire them, but the real explosion will occur when these NFTs finally start to be experienced in a manner that they were meant to be. And that's where we wanted to go with this. So we decided to buy all 20 of People's single edition pieces. That's a whole other story, but we did that. And then we created these massive monuments across the Metaverse in Decentraland crypto Voxels. We called it the B 20 project.
02:09:58.042 - 02:10:29.670, Speaker B: It's still there. So we bundled all of these 20 pieces, we bundled these monuments, we bundled an original Soundscape by Blau and we fractionalized the ownership into the B 20 tokens. So why people is an easier question to answer. Because we believe he's the artist of our generation. We believe that he represents the only thing that is unhackable in this digital world, and that is time. And that's what this Beeple 5000 represents, right? Think about it. Every day for 5000 plus days, he sat down and done this one thing.
02:10:29.670 - 02:10:58.174, Speaker B: It just blows your mind. And that sort of consistency, almost spiritual level of consistency. And creating for the sake of creating is plus the beauty of it is if you start at the 5000 piece at the top left. The first picture is absolute crap. I mean, people level absolute crap. And then you graduate all the way. You see the journey of an artist, how he's grown as an artist, and how he was able to do these things at the most crucial times in his life.
02:10:58.174 - 02:11:30.250, Speaker B: Right. I remember a story where he did one in 15 minutes because his wife was in labor. He didn't miss even that day. So this collage or this thing represents a person's life, 13 years of commitment to this one thing. And that's why we believe he's the artist of this generation. And that's why we also believe in retrospect, that we got it for a steal. That is an absolutely wonderful perspective on how you're thinking about this.
02:11:30.250 - 02:11:59.140, Speaker B: And I absolutely agree. This is a snapshot of the 13 years of the progress of who people is now. And I'm sure you'll be extremely happy to hear that. I feel like now Dylan is you're. The act that Dylan has to follow. It wasn't just Metacovin and yourself that made some news. Dylan, you also made a little bit with the recent sell of CryptoPunk seven eight four.
02:11:59.140 - 02:12:06.680, Speaker B: I want to actually have you just talk about what CryptoPunks are, just talk about some of the trade scarcity and describe seven eight four.
02:12:07.210 - 02:13:05.894, Speaker I: Yeah, so CryptoPunks were the first ethereum crypto art project, and they were created in 2017 as well, which is around the same time, probably, that Medicova and Tuvador were checking out decentraland, because I remember checking it out at the same time. That's another topic. I'm very curious to talk to the metaverse later, if we have the time, but DM, they're created by these two artists, matt hall and John Watkinson, and there are only 10,000 crypto punks, and they were actually available for anyone to claim as a start. And unfortunately, I did not claim them then, but anyone who can claim them for free in the early days, I thought was a really cool and pure way to distribute them to the community. And then from there, market formed and different people were trading them based on rarity. Of the 10,000 encrypted punks, there were only 88 zombie punks, there were 24 apes, and there were nine aliens. And there was exactly one alien punk that was smoking a pipe, and its name is Seven eight four.
02:13:05.894 - 02:13:41.730, Speaker I: And I found 78 four to be completely magnetic. And I was obsessed with it, honestly. And over the holidays of 2017, 2018, I started to think seriously, I was on a trip with my then girlfriend, now wife Elena, who's also amazing and early the NFT space and now working privacy in the crypto space. And we started talking about it and I said, I think this might be the craziest thing I've ever done, but I'm going to put down $15,000 as a bid for seven eight four, because I think this could be the digital Mona Lisa.
02:13:43.990 - 02:13:46.450, Speaker B: Sorry, this is 2018, correct?
02:13:46.520 - 02:14:28.626, Speaker I: Yeah, this is early January of 2018 now, and I had bought a few already, but this is the one that I coveted and care about the most and have most of a relationship with and just, I thought, a very iconic image. The Big Guy accepted. And yeah, I told some people when I first came back from this trip, and their reaction was that I was crazy. I think that it's amazing how in three years, how much so much has changed about the way that we interpret and understand the Internet and digital ownership and art. But at that time, people just totally didn't get it. And so I was a little quiet for a few years because I was like, oh, maybe this is not the right time. I'll talk about this another time.
02:14:28.626 - 02:15:08.302, Speaker I: And then over the last six months, I started to get more loud. I put it as my avatar. I started to really talk about it more with people. And over the entire period of time when Oakland was kind of a secret identity as well as when it was a public identity, I really felt a relationship with the art piece in a way that was I'd never expected. And I think going through the process of selling it, which I was very mixed about, but I thought ultimately that if this is going to be the digital Mona Lisa, it has to change hands. It has to actually be recognized with value by somebody else. And of course, I was conflicted because I loved it so much.
02:15:08.302 - 02:16:24.310, Speaker I: But I think through the process of selling it, I've actually believed even more that all the conversations and questions about our NFTs art can you have relationship with digital objects? Those are just now so clear to me because I think the answers are sounding yes, like, not all NFTs are art, but art can be NFTs, and you can have a relationship with that art when it's digital. And that makes me so bullish on the future of the NFT industry, because I think that it's not only art, but I also think that when you start thinking about what does it mean to have a relationship with digital space and items, there's just so much that could unfold there. And as we think about the Metaverse, whether it's decentraland, whether it's gathertown centralized decentralized, or a medium between the two worlds, I think that there's going to be relationships that form, there's going to be objects that are created. We're going to go from sort of if you look at the way that the economy develops from currency to goods to services, we're going to see the exact same thing happen in the metaverse. And that's fascinating to me. And the crypto implications for that are so vast and just so wild that I'm really excited to see what the next ten years brings.
02:16:24.730 - 02:16:53.634, Speaker B: No, that's absolutely amazing. I think you said this, I believe in a tweet or another. Was it the clubhouse where you said owning seven, eight, or four was a curse as well? And it's just the exact same thing you talked about. There's an emotional relationship that you have with this piece, and you've had it for a few years. That's part of your identity. And for it to be successful and really propagate the message that this actually is a new way to think about art, you have to part ways.
02:16:53.832 - 02:17:27.946, Speaker I: That's right. And then you'll always part ways with the Mona Lisa. That'll be part of my identity as well now. But I've signed up for that, and that's okay with me because it's not the money that motivates me. Money is nice, and don't get me wrong, but it's a very privileged thing to say that. But at the same time, I care so much more about can we make this a movement and can we make this something where creators I see NFTs as a way for creators to have room to explore their art. Going back to what, you know, time is the only thing that's in Hackable.
02:17:27.946 - 02:17:29.470, Speaker I: I think it's a beautiful statement.
02:17:30.130 - 02:17:31.680, Speaker B: Medicovin said that.
02:17:32.770 - 02:17:56.120, Speaker I: Medicovan. But either way, it's a beautiful, beautiful statement. And I think that time is also so scarce, and money can equal time. If you have income, that will give you time to work on whatever you care about most. And to the degree that NFTs can create that space for people, create that abundance for people, I think the world can really change as a result.
02:17:56.970 - 02:18:35.710, Speaker B: Absolutely agree. And I guess you already brought that up, and I was going to ask you to bedor. Let's kind of dig a bit into how you think about Metaverse and just the metaverse overall. Could you give us an overview of what metaphorse is? What led to its creation as an entity, or I would say, or as an.org and also, you kind of just talked about the B 20 project, but would love to kind of have our audience know a bit more detail about what that was, how it was set up and what you expected for people to kind of do and interact with. Yeah, beautiful. B 20 project was done at a massive scale.
02:18:35.710 - 02:19:19.182, Speaker B: And one of the reasons we did it was because it was like trying to put together the first computer or the first car. Right. You don't know how all the parts fit. So it necessarily has to be big to see if that thesis worked. Which is why we needed something as spectacular as the 2021 of ones of people in massive, massive estates in decentralized crypto, Voxels, Somnium space and so on. And we had what was called the Metapalooza, which turned out to be the largest ever virtual event in the crypto space. The thing is, beyond a certain point, metaphors can't take credit for any of it because if, say, 500, 600 people turn up, fine.
02:19:19.182 - 02:19:43.862, Speaker B: I'll take some credit. Nifty turn of phrase, great design and all of that stuff. When 2500 to 3000 people turn up for an event, he said, okay, somebody else took charge of this. Nobody told me about it. So that's kind of what happened. It means that people were ready for a certain shift in the way they looked at art and engaged with it. And that was at the heart of the B 20 movement, in a sense.
02:19:43.862 - 02:20:24.386, Speaker B: And Andrew Steinwall described it best for us, it was the first public art project, in a sense. It was like the virtual MoMA with the only difference that you can now own a piece of the museum as well. So when you walk into the Museum of Modern Art and you have this visceral connection with one of those art pieces, all we did was tokenize that connection. Say, I own the entire experience, right? From the step that I walk into to this space to the sound that I hear, to the experience that I have in the art. And that's simply what the B 20 token represents, right? It's very simple. It's not a utility token, it's not a social token. There's no protocol behind it.
02:20:24.386 - 02:21:01.502, Speaker B: There's no roadmap. It just means that it gives you a piece of the ownership of that. And whether or not you have B 20s, you can walk into those museums today and experience those works of art. The paradigm we wanted to shift, like I was talking about, was the way the world engages with art is very unimaginative. You either buy it and flip it for a higher price, or you buy it and lock it away somewhere, which is what happens to conventional pieces. The third part is what we tried with V 20, which is to open up access to the entire world. That used to be how art worked in ancient temples in India or Egypt or in Rome, ancient civilizations.
02:21:01.502 - 02:21:36.922, Speaker B: That's how art was experienced. But then a layer of finance sort of settled on it. It stopped being sustainable, and B 20 changed that. It's now sustainable and sort of profitable for all of the stakeholders as well. And the moment we realized that was when we worked with 30 people, right, to build B 20, we worked with Wales Street. The team at Wales Street did the underlying tech work. They did the Bundling and the Fractionalizing now credit to Nfdx and Niftex, who have been doing it for quite a while now.
02:21:36.922 - 02:22:16.860, Speaker B: This is not an original idea, this is not a new idea. We just did it at a different scale. That's all Whale Street did that we have Metacast, which is a team of excellent communicators like Andrew Steinwald, Matthew from Scent, Brooke and so on. We had Grow Your Base, which helped us with the tokenomics of the whole thing. So about 30 people in, all right, and all of them chose to take B 20s instead of USDC or ETH. That's when we realized, oh, okay, they actually believe in this idea, it's not just us. And so it was very heartening to see also a community sort of form quite naturally and spontaneously around B 20.
02:22:16.860 - 02:23:00.246, Speaker B: There is no official discord for metaphors. We never created a B 20 discord. But now three discords exist. There's one very graciously created by the whale community, there's one by fans elsewhere and there's one as part of Whale Street. So all of this is the B 20 story and this sort of confidence that this enabled in us is what spurred us towards bringing home the People 5000 as well. If anybody ought to have that piece, it should be someone from the crypto space, preferably not Justin. I am happy to hear that what you're saying.
02:23:00.268 - 02:24:01.674, Speaker I: Tibidor I think one of the things I've been reflecting on a lot recently is how the question of what is art has always propelled art forward. And obviously that's getting pulled into question even more with NFTs, whether it's people seeing people and going, okay, it's not what I traditionally think of as art or as people saying it's the format. And that's changed. I also think that there's inherent link in crypto and I think you highlighted it beautifully of art as community and that being a part of the artwork. And I think it was fascinating just to hear you say about how this parallels ancient civilizations as well, where art was also community and part of the community in a different way. And so I think there's so much to explore there, whether it's dows being able to mint things or vote on how art should change over time, whether it's sort of communities coming together to experience art. There's so much there and I'm really eager to see how it evolves too.
02:24:01.872 - 02:24:49.660, Speaker B: Yeah, sorry. Go. No, no, just emphatically agreeing with Dylan, that's all. No, it's actually very much true because what I was going to ask was this definitely changes some definition of what art is because we've not had to update that definition for the digital world. I mean, it's kind of stayed constant for the last few decades, ever since we've gotten computers and internet to be widespread and mainstream. But also until we kind of had a notion of scarcity, whether that's verifiability or decentralization or anything else, we've never been able to actually get the digital version of the same art to explode or actually be equally valuable or considered valuable. So it's actually curious to hear both of your thoughts on.
02:24:49.660 - 02:25:16.130, Speaker B: Obviously NFTs is not just art, it's a much bigger realm. You hear that about being dows and communities and having much more anywhere from tokenization or fractionalization of these things. But how do you think about programmability? Programmability in the digital world? Like we have smart contracts that can create dynamic pieces. We have a lot of way to think about what creativity is, what excites you in sort of that realm.
02:25:18.550 - 02:25:20.194, Speaker I: Tibetor, you want to start?
02:25:20.392 - 02:25:22.062, Speaker B: No, I'll let you go.
02:25:22.216 - 02:26:16.710, Speaker I: Okay. I think in the broader NFT realm again, I think this framework of thinking about the digital economy as moving from currency to goods to services is something I'm thinking about a lot right now. And I think that if you think about goods, there's just so much that could be tokenized. And of course, there's the question of like, what is the advantage that being tokenized gives? So the advantage that tokenizing a piece of art gives to the creator of the art is that they can monetize the art in a different way, but they can also bring their community together. And if people have the financial incentives to grow the community, the artists will then take off even more. I think that another thing that I get excited about is sort of how do you create productive assets as NFTs? So, for example, music rights would be an example there. Now I'm assuming a key comment legally or anything about security.
02:26:16.710 - 02:26:43.420, Speaker I: Not security, but I think that aside, if you think about a music right, being tokenized combined with fractionalization, you can start to get to actual dividend streams. And I think that plus some of the things we're seeing with services like Uniswap, which might eventually actually create dividends, crypto is then looking like not a speculative gambling house, but rather, it looks like in.
