00:00:00.320 - 00:00:36.004, Speaker A: So welcome everybody, finally for the opening of Ethereum Zurich 2024. It's a great feeling to be here again after one year. So this is the second time Ethereum Zurich is happening here. Today we are at this beautiful campus of Erkel. We switched from last year because the conference grew in the number of people and hopefully also it's significance. I won't be long. I just basically want to start off with thanking all of you for being here today during the opening.
00:00:36.004 - 00:01:10.800, Speaker A: I know it's tough to be the early Riser. I also want to thank all of the sponsors that enabled us, namely Dfinity, the Internet, computer, ACI, blockchain and their project wake, anoma Swarm, and also pon. And of course, I want to thank the University of Zurich, the blockchain center of the University of Zurich, and namely Professor Claudio Tisone, who's going to now tell you about the conference and how we got here. So thank you again for being here.
00:01:10.992 - 00:02:14.414, Speaker B: Thank you, Joseph. Thank you everybody for joining us. Well, I think I have the same words as Joseph was saying to me and to the University of Zurich as a whole, if I am allowed to be the representative here. It's a pleasure to welcome once again the Ethereum community and of all ecosystem related to blockchains and platforms have been building on top of this like we had last year. Ethereum is perhaps the first example of how Switzerland became such an appealing place to do blockchain. And that's why we at the university are very happy to be leading the center exactly in this country and doing it because we are able to do a lot of academic activities, but also industry related activities, thanks to the great momentum that exists in the space here in Switzerland, and the momentum that, in spite of market sentiments, has always been quite positive. The Blockchain center of the University of Zurich is a competence center in our university.
00:02:14.414 - 00:02:48.564, Speaker B: We were established in 2017, formally in 2019. But one important thing that we stand is that in order to understand blockchains, we really need interdisciplinary approaches. And that's why we have been coordinating activities in this space, be it research, be it education, but also interacting with what gives breadth to this space. That is the people that constructed that. It is you. And that's why we are really happy to have this event now here. One thing that is important is that we are a public university.
00:02:48.564 - 00:03:54.336, Speaker B: So for us, it's very important to always have a unbiased understanding on how this ecosystem works, understanding what are the positive sides, what are the downsides, because this is exactly what is going to nurture it. In the future and project it and within the mandates that we have, because you know that we are a university, so we have our own set of rules between the mandates that we have from the university. One of the things that is very important is, as I said, being a single point of contact with industry and support the growth of the ecosystem, always based in this unbiasedness that is so important for us. The last thing that I wanted to say is I wanted to thank the people from duct tape, the people from pound, because working with you, like last year, has been a pleasure with Josef and Nico, Dan Void, et cetera, because you have been a pleasure, a very fruitful collaboration, and I hope that we continue it in the next years. Thank you very much. Welcome to the conference. We will have a very long program these three days.
00:03:54.336 - 00:03:54.704, Speaker B: Thank you.
