00:00:00.360 - 00:00:31.590, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Susano, and today's the 1 April 2021. Alright, 1 April 2021. You all know what that means, right? It is April Fool's day, so it is probably the most unbearable day to be on the Internet, if I'm being honest. You know, even though you know, it's April Fools, you can still kind of like fall for a lot of the things that people post. And you know, I've posted a couple of things, you know, already. You know, I posted a tweet saying I just sold all my ETH for BTC.
00:00:31.590 - 00:01:04.170, Speaker A: That's a pretty obvious April fool's joke, but I'm sure I'm still going to get people being like what the hell? Because they don't realize what day it is. You know, I guess a lot of the days kind of blur together these days, especially, you know, I guess like a lot of different countries have lockdowns because of COVID So yeah, the days definitely blend together here. But on that note, Andre put out I guess like a tweet saying EIP 3455 is even more important than EIP 1559. Please support. And, and I commented saying, you know, this would solve so many issues. I'm willing to pay $1 million to get this implemented ASAP. Now obviously this is an April fool's joke.
00:01:04.170 - 00:01:32.992, Speaker A: What this EIP is. It's a EIP to add a pseudo command to, to Ethereum. Now for those who don't know what the pseudo command is, it basically gives you, I guess like super admin privileges over a system. This is typically used in Linux based systems. If you ever use Linux you would have used, would have used this. So yeah, essentially it's funny because like you can go to like I guess the, the summary here. And I guess, where does it say it? It says, well, maybe in the, um, yeah, in the summary it definitely says that.
00:01:32.992 - 00:02:25.954, Speaker A: I saw it somewhere here. Yeah, it said with Sudo anyone could free that the value locked in like the burn address which is $17 billion of tokens and ether and this would lead to economic boom that would end poverty and world hunger. I mean, you know, you just, just reading through it, you can kind of see that this is obviously a joke, right? But it's still funny to see how many people kind of fell for it, especially people who maybe don't know, kind of like what pseudo, pseudo is and everything like that. So I can kind of get that and maybe sometimes these April fools jokes can go too deep. You know, I've seen some companies and some kind of, I guess, like, you know, different kind of people go like really deep on these things and, you know, they really try to trick people, which, you know, is a bit of fun. But at the same time, I can understand why people get frustrated and maybe even go as far as to take the day off the Internet on, on today. But, yeah, anyway, I'm sure you're gonna see plenty of stuff on Twitter today from, from a lot of different people saying a lot of different things.
00:02:25.954 - 00:02:50.438, Speaker A: I will take everything you see with a grain of salt. I hope no projects announce any kind of major things today on kind of like Twitter, any major upgrades, because it would just confuse everyone. So maybe today we'll have like a nice little break and then be back at it tomorrow and maybe I'll have nothing to talk about on the refill except kind of April Fool's jokes tomorrow. We'll see. But, yeah, good to, good to keep that in mind for today. Definitely. All right, onto some actual project updates now.
00:02:50.438 - 00:03:16.172, Speaker A: So the Synthetix dap staking Dapp, sorry. Is now compatible with optimistic ethereum on L2. So you know how I was saying the other day on the refuel that, you know, synthetix is still working with optimism. Just because their public mainnet is delayed till July doesn't mean they're not still working with a lot of the apps that they've been working with already on their private kind of mainnet implementation here. And this is what they, what they're doing, right. They're continuing to do this. They're continuing to work with synthetix on this.
00:03:16.172 - 00:03:41.184, Speaker A: And I'm sure we're going to see more coming from, from synthetix here. Sorry, from, from optimism here with regards to onboarding different apps, you know, in a kind of like, I guess, permissioned manner. So, so that's going to be really cool. But yeah, if you haven't checked this out, definitely go do. So. If you're a synthetic staker, this, this definitely applies to you. You know, the reason why synthetix looked into L2, I guess, like much quicker than other kind of like apps did, was because the L2 staking.
00:03:41.184 - 00:04:18.860, Speaker A: Sorry. Because staking on the Synthetix app was very expensive for like smaller stakers, you know, and you get like a reward each week in SNX tokens. And typically for the smaller stakers, it would cost like 100, $5200 to claim these rewards. And the rewards wouldn't even be worth it because it would be, you know, less than the gas fee. So definitely, you know, obviously synthetix has put a lot of work into this. And their plan, I mean, their phase rollout plan for it is basically for synthetix to exist entirely on, on L2, which is going to be a pretty big boon, I think, as well, not just for staking, but also for their exchange, you know, cheap transactions, fast transactions. So, like, I'm really excited to see how that kind of pans out.
00:04:18.860 - 00:04:42.248, Speaker A: Still a little bit of a while away, but yeah, going to keep an eye on that one for sure. Speaking of scalability, Aave announced today, I guess, like, that they're exploring scalability frontiers. Of course they are. I mean, every app is right now, and they're the first kind of, I guess, you know, scalability technology that they're going to be using is polygon. Now, a full disclosure here. I'm an advisor to Polygon. Just want to get that out there.
00:04:42.248 - 00:05:04.860, Speaker A: But I did want to discuss kind of like, I guess, you know, what's kind of happening here with, with scaling. Now, you guys will know that polygon, I've discussed it before, it's not a L2. It is a side chain. The matic pos chain is, is a side chain because it's valid. It shares a different kind of validator set. It is not secured by the Ethereum main chain. And I've discussed how I think that is, okay.
00:05:04.860 - 00:05:48.232, Speaker A: It's not, it's not like it's the end of the world. But I do obviously have a preference for L2s on Ethereum that are secured by Ethereum. Now, the L2 ecosystem is definitely not ready for Aave. Going to L2 wouldn't really do much right now. A lot of the different apps aren't on there. The composability is not there, whereas on Polygon, they are building out a little bit of an ecosystem here, you know, so I totally get rv going with kind of polygon first, and then seeing how the L2 space kind of shakes out because, you know, ave is probably thinking themselves, okay, well, do we go on, you know, optimism? Do we go on arbitrum? Do we go with starkware? And they're like, okay, what's the quickest way to give our users kind of like, just cheap transactions for that for the meantime? And, and I think Polygon was that quickest way because Polygon's already there. It's already set up.
00:05:48.232 - 00:06:12.054, Speaker A: It's on Mainnet. They have a bunch of apps on there. So I think that's kind of like what they, what they kind of went with. But they also kind of detail here that they're going to take like a multi kind of market approach, which I guess is like a multi kind of EVM chain approach with ETH L1 as like settlement layer. So obviously Ave tokens are still going to live on, on l one. You know, I'm pretty sure most of the activity will still happen on layer one. The governance and stuff will still happen on layer one, Ethereum.
00:06:12.054 - 00:06:43.542, Speaker A: But they're going to go with obviously, you know, Polygon as a side chain as part of the first wave here, and then they're going to, I mean, there's, I mean, and on that note, there's also like, you know, different bridges available already for Polygon. You know, Zappa has bridges too. So just these usability things, I mean, it makes sense. There's none of that stuff for L2 on Ethereum yet, so definitely makes sense for Ave to kind of start here. But from, from my reading of this, they definitely want to kind of like adopt L2s as well. They're not just going to let like someone fork their protocol into L2. Right.
00:06:43.542 - 00:07:20.930, Speaker A: So that, that's pretty cool as well. Yeah. So I guess on, on kind of that note as well in terms of, you know, I guess, matic wallet, polygon and Aave. I'm curious to see if any kind of other, I guess, main defi apps go, go to Polygon, you know, rather than going on L2. It's gonna be a bit of, a little bit of a mess for a little while, I think because of the fact that, you know, it's so early in the L2 kind of landscape that people are just placing bets, essentially, which I think is fine. And, you know, it's fun. It's funny because like with Polygon and the reason, like there's, there's kind of like two major reasons why I signed up to be an advisor with them.
00:07:20.930 - 00:07:41.186, Speaker A: One of them is that their team is extremely ethereum aligned. They are not in the, you know, they have no interest in being parasitic to Ethereum. They want to be as additive to ethereum as possible. They are not, you know, competitive. They've never positioned themselves as an Ethereum killer. They're not someone like, you know, binance with binance smart chain, where that they have positioned themselves as an Ethereum killer. Right.
00:07:41.186 - 00:08:21.304, Speaker A: You know, and that's, that's, that's one reason. And the other reason is that they're actually going to be working on L2. Technology as well. So not only will they have their side chain stuff like the Matic Pos chain, they're also going to be offering optimistic roll up, ZK roll up, and some other L2 kind of solutions for different teams to build with. So this could just be like a stopgap for Aave, and then eventually maybe the pos side chain gets upgraded to some kind of L2 sort of thing. So we might see that happen, which I think there is a future for that, definitely. You know, and from that kind of point of view, I think that it's better that these projects go to something that's Ethereum aligned than go to something that's not.
00:08:21.304 - 00:09:01.836, Speaker A: So that's how, that's kind of how I think about it. And, you know, I'm not, I'm not, you know, some people might call me in hypocrite and say, oh, you're always, you know, hating on side change. You're always hating on things. And just because you're an advisor to Polygon, you're like, you know, I guess like tooting Polygon's horn. It's like, well, I mean, I just explained the two main reasons, right? I would rather support an extremely ethereum aligned kind of side chain kind of ecosystem with, with polygon and also support their L2 efforts, then kind of like support any of the other stuff that's actually parasitic. I mean, you know, these other chains like Cardano and perk it, I mean, they've openly said that they are coming for Ethereum, right? They think they're better than Ethereum. I have never seen kind of polygon do marketing like that.
00:09:01.836 - 00:09:58.538, Speaker A: All they say is, you know, you know, come to us, we've got cheaper fees, which, of course they do because, you know, they're obviously have a different validator set, right? They, they have staking, not, not kind of like mining and things like that as well, which, I mean, isn't really a huge scalability thing, but it's a different kind of model there. So from that point of view, you know, I, I don't think I'm being a hypocrite. I mean, people are still going to call me it, but whatever, but definitely think that it's, it's, you know, a positive kind of move that. Are they deployed to polygon instead of BSC? Right. If you, if you take that line of thinking, I think that's positive. And maybe aave will go with, go to BSc because I don't, I don't even blame projects for going to these other chains as, like, a defensive measure, because if you don't, right, there's going to be another project that either forks you right and just copies your code and basically essentially deploys themselves there and gets growth, or there's going to be other projects that spin up and kind of take your market share on those chains, if those chains ever kind of get like some sizable market share. So I totally understand from a business perspective why projects are doing this.
00:09:58.538 - 00:11:06.652, Speaker A: And it really is on the Ethereum ecosystem and the L2 builders to essentially out compete, you know, out build them, you know, build L2s that are super scalable and, you know, basically convince people that, hey, L2 is ready, L2 is here, you can build on it. And it shares the security of Ethereum and it shares like the ethos of Ethereum with decentralization. So why would you kind of like want to build on a sidechain or another chain, for example? I mean, the side chain term, as I've explained so many times, is crappy. And I said I would stop using it, actually. But I think at this point, like, people just know the term, but essentially, you know, anything can be a side chain to Ethereum. So, you know, I would rather it just be polygon, an Ethereum aligned team that, you know, adds value back to the ecosystem rather than be a parasitic team like binance is with BSc and like, a lot of the other chains are essentially, I mean, there's, there's a laundry list of quote unquote Ethereum killers out there that have marketed themselves as that, that have advertised themselves as that. And, you know, they definitely kind of like have not really had that much success because, I mean, I think the major reason is because they weren't EVM compatible, which they're all scrambling to do now.
00:11:06.652 - 00:11:40.656, Speaker A: So it's going to be interesting to see how that plays out. Definitely. But I guess, yeah, this is cool for a lot of the users who are priced out of using Aave on Ethereum layer one, we'll keep an eye on how this goes and kind of like what other solutions aave looks through in the scalability space. So speaking of scalability, again, so immutable x is a L2 NFT exchange that I've spoken about a lot. So today they announced that Opensea has partnered up with them for gas free L2 transactions for nfts. Now, this is huge. I mean, Opensea just raised, I can't remember how much they raised, but they raised like tens of millions of dollars.
00:11:40.656 - 00:12:08.702, Speaker A: The other day. I remember I spoke about it, can't remember the exact figure. So they're huge, right. You know, I mean, I'm sure a lot of you have used Opensea at this point. They're a huge NFT marketplace, and the fact that they're building on immutable as their scalability solution is, is awesome, right? I think it's really, really awesome because, I mean, as I was just saying, I much prefer L2s, right, to different kind of blockchains, even if they're ethereum aligned, you know, for multiple reasons, right. They're more secure, they're more decentralized. They inherited ethereum security.
00:12:08.702 - 00:12:39.610, Speaker A: They use ETH as like the unit of account, right, as like the fee token. And they pay fees to the ethereum network in ETH, right, for the security. So totally aligned there. And, you know, I think immutable is one of those teams that is extremely aligned with this vision. If you follow them on Twitter, you'll know what I mean. All their tweets are basically kind of going through how they believe in, you know, the mission of having a L2 ecosystem on top of an extremely decentralized base layer instead of spinning up new chains. So that's why, you know, I mean, a major reason why I like to support, support them.
00:12:39.610 - 00:13:21.344, Speaker A: And, you know, I'm sure a lot of you heard kind of Robbie, the co founder on the Bankless podcast the other day a few weeks ago, now that I mentioned it, was talking about L2 and like how he was just basically saying, you know, we don't want to compromise on this sort of stuff, which, which I deeply respect, obviously, because it speaks to what I believe in and I hope what a lot of you believe in as well. So really, really cool to see this from Opensea. And I guess like welcome to the immutable x ecosystem. So Alchemyx announced basically their plans for, I guess what the Alchemix did is going to look like. Now there's, I guess, this blog post here. I'll just get loaded up here where they go through it. I mean, this isn't like a live or anything yet.
00:13:21.344 - 00:14:24.192, Speaker A: It's just basically a high level overview of what the alchemy stao is going to look like. They basically kind of talk about how staking is going to work, you know, how you'll be able to stake your a LKX tokens, earn fees, you know, on the protocol if you participate in governance and sort of things like that as well. If you keep scrolling down here, it talks about kind of like how the voting points will work in the Dow and how the stakers will become the defenders of the protocol through an insurance kind of fund as well. And one thing that actually stood out to me was basically kind of, I guess, this kind of sentence here, this kind of paragraph here where they talk about L2s, they say, while L2 solutions come in several shapes, we can't arbitrarily pick any L2 because we have zero knowledge about which solution will emerge as the winner. But we're optimistic that Dapps will converge on one during the development of Alchemic's DaO. Now, I don't know how many puns you picked up here, arbitrarily, I think refers to arbitrum, zero knowledge obviously refers to ZK roll ups, and optimistic obviously refers to optimistic roll ups. Kudos to them for getting three puns in here in one sentence.
00:14:24.192 - 00:14:57.978, Speaker A: But then they go on to say, by harnessing the throughput of l two solutions, Alchemyxdao will be inclusive of all ethereums without sacrificing our ethos of decentralization first. So there we have it again, right? Another project that really just gets it right, really gets that decentralization comes first. And, you know, we can achieve that with L2. And I'm sure they're already talking to a bunch of teams about this and kind of what altoos to adopt here. So really, really cool to see this, but I mean, I suggest giving this a read if you're, if you're a fan of Alchemyx. I mean, it's one of my favorite defi projects in the ecosystem right now. I know I talk about them a lot.
00:14:57.978 - 00:15:45.742, Speaker A: Obviously, I hold Alkx tokens, you know, I mean, I wouldn't, I guess, like, if, if I didn't, it'd be a bit stupid for me to be bullish on the project without owning the token. But yeah, I think they're really, really cool, and what they're building is really valuable. So excited to see the Alchemix Dow go live in the future. So the Ethereum push notification service, or EPNS, announced today that they're going to be partnering up with Uniswap as part of their pilot project. Now, for those who don't know, EPNS is essentially decentralized, a decentralized notification protocol on Ethereum. Now, you know, I'm sure a lot of you, I mean, I've explained this before on the refill, but I'm sure a lot of you get annoyed the same as me, that, you know, unless you're using, I guess, like a, you know, there's some third party services out there. They give you notifications about the, you know, things happening in Defi, but a lot of the time there isn't.
00:15:45.742 - 00:16:41.354, Speaker A: You know, you might, you know, Metamask will give you a notification if your transaction is confirmed or if it fails, but it won't tell you if your maker, CDP, is about to be liquidated. Right. Or your maker vault. Sorry. It's not going to tell you kind of like what your yield was for the day, right? Or kind of like if your yield, if your tokens have unlocked, if you've had them locked in some kind of staking mechanism and then they're unlocked, you know, it's not going to tell you all of these kind of things that you want to be notified for, whereas EPNs will, and they're building a protocol around it to do it in a decentralized way. So, you know, I think it's just really cool that they've been able to land Uniswap as a pilot project partner here because, I mean, as I've just said before, Uniswap has the best brand awareness out of anything on Ethereum. I actually think that Uniswap rivals Ethereum itself with brand in terms of brand awareness because Uniswap is, I mean, I've explained this before, but Uniswap is one of the first defi apps, if not the first defi app, that pretty much everyone will use when they come into the ecosystem.
00:16:41.354 - 00:17:08.290, Speaker A: Right? The uni token was the best airdrop ever. You know, it gave so many people so much money for basically just interacting with the protocol at one point in its lifetime. And it's also fairly accessible on Coinbase, so a lot of people get exposed to it. So it's really great to see that, you know, an early stage project like EPNs here is teaming up with, with Uniswap to do this. And I guess disclosure here, I'm a small seed investor in epNs. Been supporting them for quite a while now. The team is awesome.
00:17:08.290 - 00:17:35.500, Speaker A: You know, the two, basically, the two co founders are based out of India. You know, they're building, you know, a great protocol, I think, and it came out of a hackathon, I believe, as well, which is really cool. So, yeah, definitely go check this out if you haven't yet. And if you're a builder, definitely contact them and get involved with them if you're interested in push notifications for, for your app. So another thing everyone on Twitter was talking about yesterday was the Fay Labs or Faye protocol. Genesis sale. Now, again, disclosure.
00:17:35.500 - 00:18:14.640, Speaker A: I'm a seed investor in Faye protocol. I hate having to give these disclosures all the time, but I feel I need to because I don't want to just be known for just shilling things that I have bags of. But anyway, so what the fade genesis sale was is basically a way to get fade tokens, which are the stable coin that's being created here. And then you'll be able to get tribe as well. So you'll be airdropped tribe tokens for doing this too. Now, the reason I think a lot of people were talking about this was because one, a lot of people don't understand how this works and how fader protocol works under the hood. I'm not going to explain it here because I'm going to, you know, mess up the explanation because you, I suggest reading through the documentation.
00:18:14.640 - 00:18:43.798, Speaker A: Um, because if I try to explain it and I miss something, that's just going to misinform you. So definitely go read the documentation there. But essentially what fate is, it's a, it's an algorithmic stable coin, but it doesn't, it doesn't work like, you know, the ones you would have seen like ESD and DSD and Ampleforth and things like that. It doesn't have kind of like rebasing, it doesn't have coupons, none of, none of that sort of stuff. It uses something called protocol controlled value to essentially keep the peg of, of Fae. And it has a bunch of different mechanisms in how it does this. You can go read the documentation for this.
00:18:43.798 - 00:19:22.414, Speaker A: But yeah, I mean, this is, that was one of the reasons why everyone was talking about it, because they were confused about how it works. And some people were asking, you know, why do we need another stable coin? I mean, I can give you kind of my rationale and why I invested in it. Basically, I want to see a fully decentralized, fully scalable and, you know, stable, stable coin on ethereum. Because right now, you know, we have Dai. But Dai is like, I would say, you know, 70% decentralized or something like that, or even like maybe even 50%. Because I think last time I checked, 50% of the collateral was not decentralized collateral backing DAi. It was 50% ETH and 50% like USDC and WBTC and some other collateral out there.
00:19:22.414 - 00:20:14.124, Speaker A: So from that point of view, I wouldn't consider Dai to be 100% decentralized anymore, which is fine, you know, without this model, you know, I mean, maker claims that Dai wouldn't be able to scale, which I don't know, I feel like ETH market cap can get so big one day that, that Dai would be able to scale with just ethnic. But that's essentially what Faye is doing. They basically said they're going to use just decentralized collateral, you know, starting with ETH, obviously, and, you know, progressing to more decentralized collateral as it becomes available on Ethereum, which, I mean, there really isn't anything else except ETH right now. You could argue that some ERC 20 tokens are decentralized. You know, I've seen people argue that link, for example, is decentralized, but I mean, I don't know. Right, because, I mean, I'm gonna get a little bit flack for this, but just as a thought experiment, you know, this could happen for ETH as well. But I think, you know, there's more of a chance it could happen for something like, like link or another ERC 20 token.
00:20:14.124 - 00:20:55.440, Speaker A: Imagine that they decide to do, the team, sorry, decides to do a token swap, right, where they basically say, well, we're gonna do a token swap. I'm gonna inflate the supply to, you know, basically, I guess, like do liquidity mining, we'll do something else. This is exactly what Aave did, right? Aave essentially did a token swap and then inflated the supply a bit, which I think everyone was fine with. And I don't think that's a bad thing. But, you know, you couldn't claim that rv token was decentralized. So I don't, I don't think you could claim that the link token, for example, is decentralized collateral right now because of the fact that if the team wanted it enough, I think they could do a token swap and they could inflate the supply. Whereas when you think about ETH inflating ETH, right.
00:20:55.440 - 00:21:24.248, Speaker A: And I guess like increasing issuance of ETH would be incredibly hard, probably impossible to do at this stage. I think in terms of like changing its monetary policy. You know, you wouldn't need to do a token kind of like swap for this, but kind of like doing this would be very hard. So I think, you know, I mean, from that point of view, ETH really is the only decentralized collateral right now. So that's why I kind of like backed back Faye. And I think that Faye is also a. Just a very interesting mechanism in how it works with the, with the protocol controlled value here.
00:21:24.248 - 00:21:51.354, Speaker A: I do believe that it can actually work, but, you know, obviously we need to see kind of these things play out in kind of like the markets, right? Obviously you can do as much testing as you want, but until your stable coin suffers like a 40% down day in the markets or something like that. Right. Some kind of like crazy volatility, it won't go through kind of like that trial and that test. So. Yeah, but anyway, I mean, I've seen a lot of people join in this sale already. I'm not going to tell whether. Tell you whether you should buy or not here.
00:21:51.354 - 00:22:28.820, Speaker A: It's totally up to you to make that decision for yourself. But yeah, I mean, I just think it was. It was funny to see so many people talking about it today and just to see discovering it because of the sale. So Mstable, another project that I'm very close to, investor advisory and you guys know that. But anyway, they announced a major kind of launch today that I wanted to cover called feeder pools. Now what these feeder pools are essentially, they're new kind of like pools on the M stable platform where you can deposit mUSd and bUsD, for example, in a 50 50 split into a pool and then earn rewards for doing so. So you can earn rewards at MTA tokens.
00:22:28.820 - 00:23:12.766, Speaker A: Right now, two thirds of those rewards are vested over six months, but the APY is quite high last time I checked. And you can kind of boost your rewards using MTA tokens. But outside of that, what these feeder pools do is it basically makes, you know, kind of like M stable into like a universe of, I guess, like stable assets here. So you can see from the video in this picture here, there's like Musd that sits in the middle and there's a bunch of stable coins that sit around it. So MUSD itself is backed by different stable coins. It's supposed to be a meta stable coin, but because it's only backed by a handful of stable coins at a time, it doesn't exactly kind of, you know, and you can swap between those stable coins, but it doesn't allow you to swap between the non. The stable coins that aren't in that basket.
00:23:12.766 - 00:23:35.576, Speaker A: This is what the feeder pools do. It basically makes it so that MUsd can be swapped for, you know, busd or GUsd for example. Or the coins underlying MUSD can also be swapped for. For these other coins as well. So it adds a lot more liquidity, a lot more kind of I guess like TVL to the. To the M stable ecosystem here. It makes it a really strong, I guess, stable coin swap platform.
00:23:35.576 - 00:24:04.176, Speaker A: But in addition to that, they also have BTC as well. So different kind of like, you know, they've got MBTC which, which is, consists of like different tokenized bitcoins. So you can see here the feeder pools are TBTC and HBTC and obviously MBTC is backed by things like WBTC, which is obviously the most popular here. But yeah, I'm, I'm super excited about the feeder pools. They've been working on this for a little while now. I definitely think it's going to add a lot of value to the M stable ecosystem. And yeah, I mean, they've got so much more coming in the roadmap as well.
00:24:04.176 - 00:24:40.094, Speaker A: I put a tweet out the other day about this, but I won't, won't show you guys too much on m stable. I just think that a lot of people are still sleeping on, on them. They're just, you know, you're just kind of like plugging away, building, you know, a lot of, a lot of really cool things in the ecosystem. So if you've got some stable coins and you want to do some yield farming with them, definitely go give, give m stable a look. So another Defi project that kind of, I guess, came out of stealth today was element finance. So element finance raised $4 million from a bunch of investors and they kind of like came out of stealth while announcing this raise. They raised it from Andreessen Horowitz or a 16 Z placeholder.
00:24:40.094 - 00:25:36.218, Speaker A: That's what, that's who led the round. And then they had kind of participation from a bunch of, I guess, defi native funds like Scala Capital and Robot ventures. They also had a bunch of angels, you know, the usuals in here, like Robert Leshna, Stani, Joe Lubin as well, obviously of consensus. Fernando from Balancer, Mariano, former head of smart contracts at Maker, and Tarun from Gauntlet here. And on top of that, they obviously introduced their team, which are former kind of, I guess, ETH one and ETH two researchers and developers, which, I mean, these two people here are pretty galaxy brain, if I, if I'm being honest. So yeah, I'm a bit disappointed I didn't get into kind of like this round myself. I'm definitely going to be kind of checking them out when they launch their, they're kind of like, I guess, token on Mainnet and see if I can scoop some up because I'm really bullish and, you know, Charles here, Windra, Danny, Matt, Paul, Nicholas, all joining the team here, all from DeFi or kind of like Ethereum based backgrounds here.
00:25:36.218 - 00:26:02.396, Speaker A: And they have a bunch of advisors as well, which a lot of, I guess, like Ethereum community members, my co founder from Ethub, Eric Connor. Obviously, everyone knows Evan van Ness. So I mean, the brain power behind this project is pretty epic, if I'm being honest. But anyway, enough gushing over the brain power. Let me tell you what this product actually is. So at the core of it, element finance allows you to split the principal from the yield. Now what do I mean by that? So this is an example that they give here.
00:26:02.396 - 00:26:33.186, Speaker A: Say you have 100 ETH, right? And you deposit that ETH into the yearn ETH vault or the y ETH vault. Now that vault is going to pay you an apy, right? Say it's paying you 24% apY. Now, say you lock it in this vault for six months. Now what the. What element finance does is it splits the principal and the yield into different tokens. So you'll get a token that represents the initial 100 ETH, right. And then you'll get a token that represents the yield being generated on that, which is the 24% apy you see here.
00:26:33.186 - 00:27:12.062, Speaker A: And then in six months, you can redeem the principal, obviously, for the 100 ETH. And you can redeem the yield token for the yield generator generated during that time. Now why would you want to do this? Well, because this just gives us more money legos to play with. You could imagine having the principal token as a collateral, right? So you can use this kind of token as collateral in rv or compound or compound or whatever, and then keep the yield token in your wallet, right? Or like even, you know, maybe use the yield token as collateral or kind of like put it in a money market or whatever. So you're essentially just creating kind of like new legos. You're breaking down kind of like something that is, I guess like the y token, which is the token that you get in the. In the y e vault.
00:27:12.062 - 00:27:41.892, Speaker A: And you're breaking it down into two parts, which I thought was really, really cool here. So, yeah, that's the core of it. That's the heart of it. But the kind of like primitives that get unlocked from this are quite vast. And you know, I wrote a bit, a bit about this in the delegate newsletter today where I said that this just looks like magic, right? You know, there's a lot of stuff in defi that looks like, I guess, like, is indistinguishable from magic at this point, which is just really, really, really cool. So yeah, go check out the project. I'm sure there's going to be lots more information coming out about this in the future.
00:27:41.892 - 00:28:06.800, Speaker A: And I'm really, really excited to see them go live. So loopering announced a. Here's the announcement, actually, they announced a new liquidity mining program for their l two exchange here. And, you know, it's begun. So you can go to exchange loopbring IO and basically do some liquidity mining and earn some LRC tokens for different L2 pools. So if you haven't done so yet, definitely go check out the post for this. I think it's going to be for a limited time.
00:28:06.800 - 00:28:40.030, Speaker A: It won't last forever. But I like how loop rig is approaching this with conservative yield farming here. They're not kind of doing anything too crazy where people are just going to like ape in and then ape out sort of stuff. And they're actually supporting a bunch of smaller tokens as well, which I thought was really cool because obviously the liquidity on loop ring is, is pretty poor for the long tail of assets right now just because, you know, there's not a lot of people on there yet and they need to kind of incentivize it. So. Yeah, really great to see them doing this and definitely go check it out, if you haven't already. All right, last thing I wanted to talk about was this video here of an NFT necklace.
00:28:40.030 - 00:29:13.604, Speaker A: So what this is, is basically, I guess what it looks like is an apple Watch that's displaying a bunch of different NFTs attached to a necklace. You can see here that a gold chain with an ETH kind of pendant linking the apple Watch that is covered in diamonds as well to this gold chain. So obviously, this is extreme. I mean, it gonna be an extremely expensive piece, but I maybe I didn't really want to focus on the jewelry aspect of it. Like, I guess like the gold and the diamonds. What I wanted to focus on is just the way people are, kind of the creative ways people are coming up with to display their nfts. Right.
00:29:13.604 - 00:29:38.396, Speaker A: I mean, this is super cool. Like, I mean, I don't know if I'd wear this, but I'm sure other people would wear this. You know, I just think it's really cool how many different ways people are coming up with to express themselves within the NFT ecosystem. All right, we've had people buy kind of like different screens for their home. Kind of like digital screens where you can display your nfts on there. Definitely, you know, something that you can be proud of, a conversation starter, all that good stuff. Now we have people coming out with these jewelry that you can express yourself with.
00:29:38.396 - 00:29:54.366, Speaker A: I mean, to be honest, I would wear that. I mean, I'm not, I don't really wear gold chains, but that ETH logo and the gold chain wrapped around it, I'd wear that. I don't know about the, the apple Watch attached to it with the NFTs displaying. I don't know if I'd wear that. But definitely, I mean there should be more Ethereum based jewelry. I think that'd be really cool. I'm not a big jewelry wear.
00:29:54.366 - 00:30:26.428, Speaker A: I wear like my apple watch. That's it. But you know, I think it's really cool and an unexplored thing here. But it's funny because also the fact that the Ethereum logo is attached there and I spoke about this the other day, Ethereum itself is becoming like the cultural hub of nfts, already is the cultural hub of nfts. And as an extension of that, you see a lot of homage pay to the ETH logo, right. And that's incredibly powerful. The ETH logo has become a symbol, right? A cultural symbol for I guess like the entire ethereum ecosystem, whether that be defi or nfts.
00:30:26.428 - 00:30:59.494, Speaker A: And you know, when you kind of see that logo, you kind of have an emotional connection to it. I don't know about you guys, maybe I'm crazy, but I have an emotional connection to the ethereum kind of logo because it represents obviously the ethereum ecosystem of which I have deep emotional connections to and I'm spent so much time in. So I think we're going to see more of that pop out here. You know, I think this is a really cool, I guess you could call it proof of concept of what's, what could be done here, what people actually enjoy. I mean, look at the engagement on this tweet. 7000 likes, 1500 retweets 571 quote retweets that's, yeah, I mean that's really, really cool. So, yeah, really.
00:30:59.494 - 00:31:22.060, Speaker A: I mean, and this, this kind of person's, I think, relatively unknown nft jeweler doesn't have many followers here, but definitely, I mean he has an instagram that has a bunch of jewelry on it. So if you're into that sort of stuff, definitely go check it out. But this is cool. Just another way for people to express themselves, blending the digital and physical realms as well. And just something really a kind of different to see here. Alright everyone, that's it for today. Thank you again for watching and listening.
00:31:22.060 - 00:31:29.284, Speaker A: Be sure to subscribe to the channel. If you haven't yet, give that video a thumbs up, subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone.
