00:00:00.240 - 00:01:22.804, Speaker A: The introduction part of my talk will partially coincide with a nice talk from yesterday by David Wilkenstein, who provided a general framework to discrete conformality. As he mentioned, there are two particular instances of how can one approach discrete conformality which attracted the most amount of attention? So those are, first, Thurston's approach via circle packings, and the second is a recently developed approach in the works of Gugu Allu Nivu, with some contributions from Babienka, Pinkal, Springborn and other people. And the topics that I'm going to speak today is connected with this second way to see descriptive formalism. So I am going to describe some state of art around discrete conformality. And first, just for the sake of completeness, and for those who didn't attend David's talk yesterday, I would like to very quickly recall very basic notions from smooth conformality. So I'm quickly recalling that on the smooth manifold, turmanian metrics are called point wise conformal equivalent. If their metric tensors are distinct by multiplication by a positive smooth function, which is convenient to write in this exponential form.
00:01:22.804 - 00:01:56.718, Speaker A: A very basic result from smooth geometry says that two riemannian metrics are point based, conformally equivalent even on leaf. All the angles between any two smooth curves are the same in both metrics. So clearly the notion of being point raised conformally equivalent is an equivalence relation. So we can consider equivalence classes with respect to these relations. And those are called conformal structures on our manifold. So I guess that everybody knows that a conformal structure is when we can measure angles, but cannot really measure legs. So there are several approaches.
00:01:56.718 - 00:02:49.160, Speaker A: How can one discretize the notion of conformality? So when we are in a smooth world, our main geometric objects are riemannian metrics. Or maybe for some people, not riemannian, but in classical geometry, riemannian metrics, but in discrete geometry, those are code metrics. I'm recalling their definition. So a con metric on a surface is something is symmetric, which is locally symmetric to a constant curvature model space, which is up to scaling either the euclidean plane or the hydrobolic plane or the standard sphere. So a con metric is locally the metric to this model space, except finding how many points, both conical points, and at the conical point, the metric is locally symmetric to a cone in a model space with total angle distinct from two PI. And so if my model space is euclidean, then I say that my conmetric is euclidean. If the model space is hyperbolic, then I say that conmetric is hyperbolic, and so on.
00:02:49.160 - 00:03:38.392, Speaker A: So it is traditional to say that the quantity two PI minus the total angle at a similar point is called the curvature of this singular point. And just annotational remark. So if I have a surface with a finite set of marked points, then I say that d is a con metric on a pair surface plus the set. If the set of conical points of my metric is a subset of v, but it might be a proper subset. So some points of v may be assigned total angles to PI in metric d. Okay, so this is an intrinsic viewpoint on quantmetrics, but basically they were developed in order to give an intrinsic description of the induced pass metric on polyhedral surfaces in model spaces. So basically in three dimensional euclidean space.
00:03:38.392 - 00:04:14.024, Speaker A: So the most basic example is the induced metric on the boundary of a convex polytope or on any polytopal surface in three dimensional euclidean space. So the induced metric is equilient cone metric. And in case of convex polytope, all total angles at vertices are less than two PI. So it means that curvatures are positive. In this case we say that the metric is convex. So here is another example of metric embedded in three dimensional euclidean space as polyhedral torus. So of course it is not convex because around those vertices the total angle is greater than two PI, so the curvature is negative.
00:04:14.024 - 00:04:48.890, Speaker A: But normally we do not consider cone metrics this way. Normally we consider con metrics via different process. So this process is as follows. Assume that we have a closed surface with a triangulation. Then we consider a length map that assigns to each edge a positive number, which is length, so that all triangles inequalities are satisfied for each phase. Then we can replace each triangle by a triangle in a model space beside length determined by this function. Then we obtain a con metric on our surface.
00:04:48.890 - 00:05:50.994, Speaker A: So in this case I say that this is a con metric on the pair surface plus triangulation and there is a foundational result that actually any con metric can be obtained this way. So any con metric can be triangulated but generically in infinitely many ways. So normally when I think about conmetrics, so I think about them this way by some representation via a triangulation. And a very important particular instance of con matrix is a circle packing metric. A circle packing metric is when we have a positive valued function on the set of vertices, some triangulation and the edge lengths are defined for each edge as the sum of weights at its end points. Then the metric is called a circle packing metric. So circle packings were famously highlighted by Thorsten in his quest for geometrization of three dimensional orbifolds.
00:05:50.994 - 00:07:12.206, Speaker A: So Gersten realized that realization of triangulations or of solutions as circle packings can be connected, can be thought as orthogonal circle patterns, and then in turn as orthogonal ideal hyperbolic polyhedra. And more generally, Charleston considered not just circle packings, but circle patterns with prescribed intersection angles. So I leave them outside of the scope of my talk. But so, with their help, Gersten was studying geometric structures on three dimensional orbifolds. And so I would like maybe to mention so to realize something as a circle packing is equivalent to, or as a circle pattern with prescribed intersection angles is equivalent as to construct an ideal hyperbolic polyhedron with prescribed combinatorics and with prescribed dihedral angles. And dually, the prescription of dihedral angles to an ideal hyperbolic polyhedron might be seen as a spherical konometric that should be embedded in the de sitter space, which is dual to the hyperbolic space. So in a way, this problem can be seen as equivalent to an isometric realization problem.
00:07:12.206 - 00:08:20.034, Speaker A: And this is just an interesting remark, because when I will speak about the second approach to descriptive formality, then the geometric realization will also play a prominent role. So there are some similarities in those frameworks. Thurston also famously proposed that, based on the fact that conformal maps can be characterized by sending infinite circles to infinite circles, then we can try to model conformal maps in the discrete setting with the help of circle packings. And so we turned out to be very fruitful, as I guess everybody knows. The most famous issue that Rodin Sullivan proved that for proper domains of complex plane, we can build discrete conformal maps with the help of circle packings. And those discrete conformal maps converge to smooth conformal maps provided by the Riemann mapping theory. Okay, so the discretization of conformality via circle packings turned out to be very fruitful.
00:08:20.034 - 00:09:36.174, Speaker A: So it suits very well to discretization of some aspects of conformal geometry, but not all of them. So it doesn't really suit to discretization of some different aspects of conformal geometry. For instance. So for me, as I think for more or less everybody, one of the main highlights of smooth conformal geometry in dimension two is the uniformization theory, which I state in a metric way. So it is one way to state it. If I have a closed irrigable surface with the remaining metric, then the uniformization theorem states that it is point with conformally equivalent to a unique up to scale metric of constant curvature, where the sign of curvature is equal to the sign of the Euler characteristic of my surface. Okay? So if we try to give discrete analog of the infrared ratio in terms of circle packing, how can we proceed? So if we think about circle packing metrics as about something discretizing conformal structures, then we may consider different circle packing metrics on the data surface and triangulation as a discrete conformal class of metric.
00:09:36.174 - 00:11:01.368, Speaker A: Okay, so this definition is actually a little bit artificial and a little bit weird, but so if I look on it this way, then I can restate the famous Kobe Andreyev Torsten theorem as a theorem about uniformization of circle packing matrix. So it states that if I have a closed oriental surface with a simplicial triangulation and a circle packing metric on it, then in each circle packing conformal class with respect to the triangulation, I can find a unique up to scaling metric of constant curvature. So, but this is in a way artificial and weird way to restate this theorem, because basically nothing depends on the initial metric g. So what really matters here is the surface and the triangulation. And basically the Kerber and Dreyf Torsten theorem states that for each surface and each triangulation there exists a unique optoscale and constant curvature metric and the circle pacing such that our triangulation is a topic to the nerve of the circle page. So basically nothing depends really on d here. But practically when we try to find such a metric, it is very reasonable to start with any circle packing metric on this data and then try to deform it, try to deform it discretely, conformally in order to get a circle packing metric of constant curvature.
00:11:01.368 - 00:12:07.934, Speaker A: So for instance, one can deform it with the help of variational approach developed by colonial Berthier. But what can I say? So this way to give the uniformization discrete setting is not really great because it doesn't really provide a way to approximate the smoothening fertilization theorem in this form. Why? So when we have a closely reactable surface with the romanian metric, how do we discretize it normally. So normally we take a sufficiently fine triangulation of this metric and then we replace each triangle with a triangle from a model space. Then we obtain a con metric, but so it is very rarely a circle packing metric. So we cannot really say that this uniformization theorem is a good discretization of this smooth uniformization theorem. So in order to give a good smooth, a good discretization of smooth uniformization theorem, we need to provide a framework of descriptive formality for arbitrary pod matrix.
00:12:07.934 - 00:12:54.954, Speaker A: So to this purpose it seems to be very reasonable to try to discretize the metric definition of smooth conformality. And there is a very natural way to do it. So one can proceed as follows. So one can consider two euclidean code matrix on the surface with triangulation and say that they are discretely conformal equivalent with respect to the triangulation. If there is a weight function on, on the set of vertices, and the lengths of edges are changed in the following manner, in the following manner, imitating the conformal change of metric for smooth metrics. Okay, so this seems to be very reasonable. So here I put exponents just because it is a conventional way to write it, so it's easier to operate with it this way.
00:12:54.954 - 00:13:35.560, Speaker A: But this definition. So in the context of discrete conformality, I guess it was first proposed by Lua, despite this definition, appeared much before in a bit different setting, but it has one disadvantage. So here we have a triangulation. But in the definition of a con matrix, there is no triangulation. So when we have a con metric, at first there is no preferred triangulation. And when we would like to deform it discretely, conformally, then we need to pick a triangulation. How should we do it? But there is a famous canonical triangulation on discrete surfaces.
00:13:35.560 - 00:14:12.856, Speaker A: So those are delanetary angulations. So I'm very quickly recalling the definition. So we have a con metric on a surface with marked point set and a decomposition into geodesic polygons with vertices at this marked point set is called Delaney. If each polygon can be inscribed in a circle so that all vertices of our mark point set except the vertices of this polygon, lie outside of the circle, then it is the Delaney decomposition. And a delineate triangulation is any triangulation refining the Delaney composition. So it is well known that a Delaney decomposition always exists and is unique. And generically it is a triangulation.
00:14:12.856 - 00:15:06.664, Speaker A: So for a generic matrix, the delegabization is a triangulation. But there are no non generic metrics for which there can be several donate regulations. But it is well known that any two Delaney angulations can be connected via sequence of flips through the linetary angulations. Okay, so those are very famous triangulations in discrete geometry. So it is very reasonable to start from a delineatory angulation and try to deform our metric discretely, conformally with respect to Delaney angulation. But what happens if our Delaney angulation is not unique? So which one shall we choose in this way? And there is a famous fact from euclidean geometry which shows that actually Delaney triangulations and Delaunay decompositions suite very well to this setting. So it is a Ptolemy relation.
00:15:06.664 - 00:16:11.388, Speaker A: So the Ptolemy relation states that a quadrilateral is cyclic if and only if the following equation holds. So the product of diagonals is equal to the sum of products of the opposite sides. And from this it is very easy to extract the following statement. So if I have two triangulations of a surface distance just by a diagonal flip in a quadrilateral, and I have a second metric which is discretely conformally equivalent to the initial metric with respect to the first triangulation, then it is very easy to extract that it is discretely conformally equivalent to the initial metric with respect to the second triangulation if and only if this quadrilateral is cyclical. So it shows that actually donate triangulations suit really well to this definition. And with their help we can attempt to give a triangulation free definition of descriptive formal equivalence. And it was given in the seminal work of Wu, Wu, sun and Wu.
00:16:11.388 - 00:17:07.018, Speaker A: So they proposed the following definition. They proposed to say that two equation code metrics on this data are discretely conformally equivalent if they can be connected by a sequence of pairs metric plus triangulation. So, connecting our two metrics so that the following holds. Each triangulation is Delaney for its metric and there are two steps that are allowed. Either the triangulation in a step is the same and metrics are discretely conformally equivalent with respect to the triangulation by our previous definition, or the metric is the same, but regulations are just two different donut regulations of the same metric. So they propose this notion and it turned out that it is a really good notion. So they managed to prove very interesting results in the setting.
00:17:07.018 - 00:18:07.046, Speaker A: So they managed to prove the uniformization in the setting. And even more, they proved a very great curvature prescription theory. So it can be formulated as follows. So first of all, I very quickly recall that for euclidean conservators, the following version of the Gauss Banette theorem holds and Wu law soon and Wu proved that if we have a pair surface with a mark point set and a discrete conformal class on this pair, and some function satisfying this descript Gauss Barnett equation. Then in each description formal quest there exists exactly one up to scaling metric, realizing this function as its curvature. Moreover, this metric can be constructed by means of a numerical algorithm resolving a variational problem. So from this the discrete neutralization of a torus hole.
00:18:07.046 - 00:19:07.094, Speaker A: So each euclidean quad metric on a torus is discretely conformally equivalent to a unicraptoscalian Euclidean method. And so this notion appeared to behave quite well under the convergence. So it was a very recent result of. So, for instance, there is the following particular case of smooth uniformization. If you have a riemannian disk, so some remaining metric or unclosed disk, then its interior should be conformally diffeomorphic to the open unit disk on the euclidean plane. And in this setting of description formality, with the help of their curvature prescription theorem, Wu, Lua and Wu recently proved that discrete uniformization maps obtained in the setting converge to the smoothness information map from the smoothie premisation theory. So they behave very well under convergence.
00:19:07.094 - 00:19:56.834, Speaker A: So as I understand, for higher genius, it is still an open problem, but probably it is a work in progress. So I'm not that much interested in convergence questions, but I will be really glad to see the development of this. Okay, but if you speak about information, then it is more reasonable to work with hyperbolic code matrix. As far as most of closed surfaces are hyperbolic rather than euclidean. So for hyperbolic cone matrix, the definition of discrete conformality, in this way it can be done just in the same way. So it is just the same definition. But when we have fixed triangulation and we deform matrix discretely, conformally with respect to the strangulation, then the conformal change should be the following.
00:19:56.834 - 00:20:43.624, Speaker A: So the conformal change should be dictated by this equation. So this equation comes from the hyperbolic Ptolemy theorem. So the Ptolemy theorem also holds in hyperbolic geometry, but there are hyperbolic signs of half of the length appear. So if we would like to be coherent, and the polymer relation is exactly what brings coherence in this definition. So we should use this equation for discrete conformal changes. Okay, so in the setting go, SuNY and Wu also proved the curvature prescription problem. So for hyperbolic one matrix, the following version of the Gauss banded theorem holds.
00:20:43.624 - 00:22:02.128, Speaker A: And guo, Lua, sun and Wu proved that if you have a surface with a set of marked points, that in every discrete conformal class on this pair, and for every function satisfying this inequality, there exists exactly one metric, realizing this function as its curvature. And moreover, once again this metric can be found algorithmically. So as a corollary, it implies the discrete uniformization for surfaces of higher genius. Okay, so this is the end of the introduction part, and now it's time to say what is my contribution? What is my contribution to this topic? So during my PhD studies, I gave another proof of this theorem. So I gave another proof of this result, and I'm going to explain the approach that I used. So basically, while I was working, I didn't know about descriptive thermality, so I was solving a different problem. My task was to give a variational proof of isometric, of an isometric realization problems for hyperbolic cast metrics on surfaces.
00:22:02.128 - 00:23:06.698, Speaker A: And after I finished my work and showed it to Boris Springborn, he told me that this is equivalent to this discrete, to this descriptive formality theorem. And after I wrote it, I realized that my work provides a different proof of it. So, the initial proof of Google law soon and Wu was partially analytical, and they used the continuity method and the invariance of domain theorem in order to prove that their critical point exists. But I was able to interpret the functional appearing in the variational method for this problem. So I was able to interpret this functional geometrically. And with the help of this geometric interpretation, I was able to give a more direct proof of the existence of a critical point. So a more geometric proof, and it can be regarded like this.
00:23:06.698 - 00:23:56.184, Speaker A: So now I would like to speak about the approach. So, I will describe not the whole curvature prescription problem, but for simplicity, I will describe just the uniformization as maybe the most interesting corollary of it. Okay, so the approach is the following. The main building blocks that I use are ideal prisms. So by an ideal prism in three dimensional hyperbolic space, I mean a polyhedron of such type. So it's a prism with two triangular faces, such that all vertices of the upper face are ideal. So they belong to the boundary at infinity, and all lateral edges are orthogonal to the lower face.
00:23:56.184 - 00:24:33.844, Speaker A: So it can be thought like we take a hyperbolic triangle located somewhere in three dimensional hyperbolic space, and consider orthogonal perpendiculars from all vertices piercing the boundary at infinity. That's how we obtain an ideal prism. Then I take the following data. So, I take a closed surface of genus greater than one. I take a finite set of marked points on the surface. I consider a hyperbolic con matrix on this data with a geodesic triangulation. So I have the following four pieces of data.
00:24:33.844 - 00:25:21.294, Speaker A: Then I do the following. I take each triangle, and for each triangle I construct the ideal prism having this triangle as the lower boundary. And then I glue all the obtained prisms according to this triangulation. I had a triangulated hyperbolic volumetric and then I take each triangle, construct a prism, and then glue all the prisms all together in order to obtain a three dimensional complex, which is a hyperbolic cone manifold. So it is called an ideal fuchsia and cone manifold. And it is homomorphic to the surface times segment minus vertices at the upper boundary, because vertices at the upper boundary, they belong to the boundary at infinity. So they don't really belong to our complex.
00:25:21.294 - 00:26:16.794, Speaker A: Okay then a technical statement that if my initial triangulation was delane, then the obtained complex is convex. So in which sense it is convex. When I glue two prisms all together, then at the upper edge the total dehedral angle can be smaller than PI, can be equal to PI, and can be larger than PI. If it is not larger than PI, then I say that my complex is convex. And the condition for such complex to be convex is exactly the condition for the initial triangulation to be delayed. So this should be seen as I just take my hyperbolic quad matrix. So for instance, one can take a hyperbolic surface if it is geodesic and just put it horizontally and consider a three dimensional manifold above this geodesic surface.
00:26:16.794 - 00:27:01.314, Speaker A: But one can also do this with a hyperbolic quad metric. Try to put it horizontally. But if it is put horizontally, then conical singularities at vertices of this metric, they become conical singularities about one dimensional edges bicomplex. So at the lower boundary when I glue everything, then I obtain just my surface with my initial metric d. But what happens at the upper boundary? So at the lower boundary I glue hyperbolic triangles. At the upper boundary I glue ideal hyperbolic triangles. So after I am done, I obtain a hyperbolic asthmatic, a hyperbolic aspect.
00:27:01.314 - 00:27:38.046, Speaker A: Yeah. So I should say that as far as ideal polyhedra are non compact, then I should be careful while I'm doing the gluing. But it can be done in a canonical way so that everything happens fine. Then at the upper boundary we obtain a hyperbolic cask metric. So it looks somehow like this. So it is a complete hyperbolic metric on a pierced surface such that the marked points are at infinite distance, so they are deleted from the surface. Then the following technical statement holds.
00:27:38.046 - 00:28:40.264, Speaker A: So if I have two hyperbolic conmetrics and if I perform this construction, then I obtain two hyperbolic cask matrix g tilde and g prime tilde. So when I started from a metric d, then I will denote the new obtained hyperbolic cosmetic by dt. So the lemma states that my two initial metrics were discretely conformally equivalent if and only if the obtained hyperbolic Cas metrics are canonically symmetric one to each other. So thus to study a descriptive formal class, one can study convex ideal function on manifolds with a fixed upper boundary better. Okay, so then if you would like to do discrete information what does it mean? We have a hyperbolic con metric and we try to uniformize it. We try to uniformize. We try to find in its discrete conformal class, a metric without similar curvatures.
00:28:40.264 - 00:29:45.582, Speaker A: So, I do this construction, I obtain a complex, I obtain a hyperbolic cusp metric on the upper boundary. And to uniformize my initial metric means to deform this complex while preserving the upper boundary, so that consingualities dissolve. Okay? So, at this point, one can ask a very reasonable question, so why on earth do we need this? So why on earth this makes this problem easier in any way? So, we had a two dimensional problem. So, I propose to do some weird construction and obtain some weird and maybe hard to understand at first, three dimensional complex. So, and now, instead of uniformizing color initial metric, we have a problem of making this complex non similar. So why on earth it can be easier? So I can say that this geometric perspective actually makes things easier. So, in my opinion, it makes things a little bit easier to view.
00:29:45.582 - 00:30:45.574, Speaker A: But of course, my viewpoint can be biased. So in which way? So, basically, the discrete uniformization problem becomes equivalent to the problem of an isometric emitting of a hyperbolic cask metric to a fuchsia manifold, where fuchsia manifold is a complete hyperbolic manifold hieromorphic to a surface times a segment. So this one boundary at infinity and one geodesic boundary. Okay, so it might be tough to understand at first why. So why those problems are equivalent. I tried to explain it, but. So the point is that for such isometric realization problems, a very nice technique was developed, a very nice technique of to use con manifolds and to try to jsingularize our con manifolds with the help of discrete curvature, or so called the discrete Hilbert Einstein functional.
00:30:45.574 - 00:31:26.796, Speaker A: And it is a very powerful technique that was already developed. And so, I say that if we put things in this context, then all next steps are pretty straightforward. So they are just done one by one. So it is just a matter of technique. And so all next work can be done in a very timely manner. So now we have hyperbolic cone manifolds with conical singularities, so, with one dimensional conical singularities in a three dimensional manifold, and we would like to de singularize them. So we would like to deform our complex while preserving zapper boundary so that one singularity is dissolved.
00:31:26.796 - 00:32:04.484, Speaker A: How do we do it? So, first of all, I just consider the set of all, all ideal fuchs and con manifolds with a fixed upper boundary. So, with a fixed upper boundary metric, and I parameterize it. So I claim that it can be parameterized in a good way, so it can be identified with rv. So I live behind how this parameterization can be done. But there is a nice and easy geometric parameterization. And then for an ideal function called manifold, or actually for any con manifold, I can define the discrete curvature. So the discrete curvature is traditional to define.
00:32:04.484 - 00:32:57.026, Speaker A: It is also so called the discrete Hilbert Einstein functional. It is the sum of the total discrete scalar curvature of my manifold and the total discrete mean curvature of its boundary. So I may consider the discrete curvature as a function over this parameter space of my ideal function called manifolds whatever. And so it has magical variational properties which are maybe not so magical for people who are long enough in this field. So I have some parameterizations, some parameterization of the space, and the first derivative of the discrete curvature are exactly singular curvature of one dimensional ejs in my complex. Or if I look at the lower boundary, so those are singular curvature of vertices. And the proof is extremely easy.
00:32:57.026 - 00:33:57.706, Speaker A: It is just the Schlosser formula applied to this setting. So as a corollary, we can see that critical points of the discrete curvature correspond to metrics in the given discrete conformal class without consingularities. Or one can say to con manifolds without consingularity, just too many faults. And one can easily prove that this function is strictly concave over our parameter space. This means this applies the uniqueness in the discrete uniformization. Okay, so it remains to prove the existence, and this can be done by a standard technique of following the gradient flow. So the only thing that we should prove that this gradient flow extinct, so that there is a critical point to this purpose, we need to show that it stays in a compact convex subset of our parameter space.
00:33:57.706 - 00:35:11.614, Speaker A: And so I claim that this can be proven just by geometric observations, by nice geometric observations, that it does not really go to the infinity of our parameter space. Okay, so I think that this is what I wanted to say about the approach, and I would like only to say on which problems we are working now. So in which problems we are interested now, as I said before, so I was not really interested in discrete conformality problems. It just came out as an interesting byproduct of this work. But we are mostly interested in isometric realization problems. So in a very general form, the problem can be stated as follows. So we have a compact three dimensional manifold with boundary and some metric on this boundary, and we are interested if there exists a constant curvature metric on our manifold inducing the initial given metric, and if such a realization is unique.
00:35:11.614 - 00:36:15.194, Speaker A: Okay, so this is a very general problem, but it is not really well paused, because we need to really restrict the class of metrics here, the boundary and even the class of constant curvature metrics that we consider in order to make these problems well posed. The most famous instance of this problem is the whale problem in sports geometry. And it has its also very famous analog indiscrete geometry. This is the Alexandrov theorem, which can be stated that every convex Euclidean conmetric on the two dimensional sphere can be uniquely realized at the boundary of a convex polyhedron. So Alexandrov himself initially proved this theorem by means of the continuity method using the invariants of domain theorem. So his proof was non constructive. If you have a presentation of such a metric, then Alexandrov technique doesn't say anything how to really construct this polytope? So it was a quest.
00:36:15.194 - 00:37:37.066, Speaker A: It was a quest how actually to find such a polytope by means of a presentation of this metric. And to this purpose, a student of Alexandra Volkov developed all this machinery of on manifolds and the discrete curvature and the variational approach in order to resolve this problem in a more constructive way. And Wolkop's approach was refined by Babendra Zmetschev, and their resolution of this problem was successfully implemented as a computer program by Stefan Seshelmann. So this problem has also its generalization to higher gene, so it can be formulated as follows. This is a theorem of Francois Philaster, a student of Jean Marc Schleier, who proves that every convex hyperbolic con metric can be uniquely realized, can be uniquely isometrically realized in fuchsia manifold. So Fuchsia manifolds is a very traditional and convenient choice for isometric realization problems of hyperbolic metrics on surfaces of higher genius. So, fuchsia and manifolds were proposed by Pagodov and by Gromov as two examples.
00:37:37.066 - 00:38:18.370, Speaker A: So quite a long time ago. So it's very reasonable to work with fuchsia manifolds while you are working with metrics on surfaces of higher genie. And the smooth counterpart to the theorem was provided by works of Jean Marc Schlenker. And there was a quest how to generalize this theorem to metrics that are neither polyhedral nor smooth. So it was realized only recently. Now we can prove that every CBB one. So CBB one means curvature bounded from below in terms of Alexandrov.
00:38:18.370 - 00:39:03.114, Speaker A: So this is the most general conditions that one should put on metric. If one would like to realize the metric in a convex way in a hyperbolic space, or in hyperbolic manifold. So this is the CBB minus one condition. So now we can extend this theorem to CBB one matrix. So every CBB minus one metric on a surface of genus, at least two can be uniquely, isometrically realized in a fuchsia manifold in a convex way. So the realization part was shown by Dimas Wolsky, another student of Janmark Schlenker. And the rigidity part was proven very recently by myself.
00:39:03.114 - 00:40:19.794, Speaker A: So this, this result, the rigidity part was shown, and also both the realization part and the rigidity part were shown by means of polyhedral approximation. But when you are trying to show the rigidity in the limit by means of polyhedral approximation, so it appears to be a quite tough problem. So I managed to give a local uniform bound on the changes of discrete curvature in order to show that the rigidity really survives in the limb. But there are still plenty of interesting open problems in this area. So, for instance, the following problem is still open that we are working on currently, assuming that we have a complex hyperbolic manifold with convex boundary. So is it true that every convex, hyperbolic, kinetic convex boundary can be uniquely realized by a hyperbolic metric on our manifold? So, in the smooth setting, this problem was resolved by Jean Marc Schlenker in his incredible paper about this. But the polyhedral case is curiously still open.
00:40:19.794 - 00:40:26.874, Speaker A: Okay. And so I think that this is the end of my talk.
00:40:31.194 - 00:40:57.934, Speaker B: Thank you very much, and I'll open this for questions. I'll pose one myself. Do you have the computational approach also in your, in your approach to the result?
00:41:00.674 - 00:41:48.164, Speaker A: So, yes, in this way, all the uniformization metrics, they can be found by numerical computations. So by resolving numerically the variational problems, this can be done, but I don't know if anybody tried to really implement it. So it was implemented for this problem only. So, as far as I know, it was implemented numerically for this problem, and I'm unaware if any work was done to implement it numerically in case of discrete informality. But I might be really unaware of some attempts, of some results, because I was never really interested in exact numerical implementation.
