00:00:00.200 - 00:00:18.798, Speaker A: Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of the Delegate refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host and Denise Asana. And today's the 30 March 2023. Right everyone, let's get into it. So apologies for missing yesterday's episode, everyone just unfortunately ran out of time to record one. But of course I'm back today and we'll be covering the last two days worth of news.
00:00:18.798 - 00:00:58.742, Speaker A: So let's jump into it. So the official announcement about the shapala, I should say hard fork or network upgrade here that enables withdrawals on the Ethereum network was put out by the Ethereum foundation. You can go check out the blog post for yourself. Of course it's got relevant links to everything that you need, including client releases. And just a reminder for those who haven't upgraded yet, be sure to do so before April 12 because that is when the upgrade is scheduled. And if you don't upgrade, you'll be left behind and your validators will start, will technically be offline. If you're a solo staker, and that means that you will be, you will get attestation panel, not penalties, but you'll miss attestations.
00:00:58.742 - 00:01:25.584, Speaker A: And of course you'll get an activity leak because of that. Now I believe the rocker pool upgrade, if you're running mini pools, is going to be out shortly. Definitely before Chappella from my understanding. So nothing to do just there just yet. But yeah, if you're a solo staker, be sure to upgrade. And if you're just running an ethereum full node, you need to upgrade as well. And remember, you need to upgrade both your consensus layer clients and your execution layer client, which as I said, are linked in this blog post and very close now, 30 March.
00:01:25.584 - 00:02:10.804, Speaker A: So just about twelve days, I believe about 13, 12, 13 days until this goes live, which is really exciting considering that uh, it's already been almost seven months since the merge for anyone that hasn't been keeping track. Yeah, it's, it's already been almost seven months since the merge. Uh, and I remember I did say that after the merge we would have this fork happening within six to twelve months. I gave quite a wide range because, because traditionally with Ethereum network upgrades they take longer than we expect. But it seems to be almost right on target. I think they wanted to do it in six months after the merge and we got it done in, in seven. So vast improvement over other, over the timing of other network upgrades, which is very promising for the future upgrades coming, such as a Cancun, which includes ERP 48 44.
00:02:10.804 - 00:03:10.668, Speaker A: If we can get that delivered, you know, six months after, after Chappelle here, it means we'll get it delivered this year, which is obviously super exciting. So I'm rooting for that, of course. But yeah, as I said, you can go check out the blog post for yourself and upgrade your nodes if you haven't yet. Speaking of withdrawals, Terrence from the off chain Labs team here, the one of the developers behind the prism clients, put together a thread where he said Ethereum validator withdrawals when to submit in this thread we'll go over when is the best time to submit your validator withdrawal, given various conditions. Now I did speak about that tool the other day, that or a couple of days ago, that beacon chain has out that allows you to basically submit your kind of withdrawal, withdrawal change, withdrawal credential change, I should say, and be part of a batch that hopefully gets included within the first block post chappella. So that in case your credentials were compromised or your seed was compromised or anything like that, you are able to change it before the attacker does. Being able to change your withdrawal address before the attacker does.
00:03:10.668 - 00:03:46.948, Speaker A: So Terrence talks a bit about that and this thread, which you can check out in the YouTube description below, beacon chain, Beacon chain website has a bunch of changes that they've made that they've listed in this thread here. One of those changes was that tool that I was talking about, and there's also more notification options for validators. I actually use this and it works really well. Whenever I get the block, a new block proposed notification, I get obviously super excited about that. And I'm like, okay. And it tells you the amount that it's proposed for as well, which is, which is super exciting. But yeah, if you're wondering what new features they have, you can go check out this, this thread here.
00:03:46.948 - 00:04:31.722, Speaker A: And on top of that, I hear that they've got like a new version of the website coming out soon. I'm not sure if I've covered on the refill before, if it's been teased before, but yeah, that's hopefully coming out sooner rather than later, which will make the website, the app and the interfaces a lot better from, from what I hear. But yeah, you can check out the improvements in this thread, which I'll link in the YouTube description below. Next up, we have something that I wanted to spend a few minutes talking about, because I've had an experience with this recently. So the Ethereum on Arm Twitter account announced that they have just gotten an orange PI five in sync with Geth and lighthouse. And this is the hardware that they ran, an orange PI 516 gigabyte of RAm edition. Sync time was 27 hours.
00:04:31.722 - 00:04:59.606, Speaker A: The database size is just under a terabyte. And this device. Sorry, the device, as the board costs €139 here, not including, obviously, a disk, I believe that you'll have to buy that separately. But, yeah, that's pretty good. I mean, €139 for an all in one device here, that includes 16 gig of ram, and then you buy an SSD. Maybe it's a two terabyte SSD. Not sure how much those are in the US.
00:04:59.606 - 00:05:39.844, Speaker A: And I don't even know the prices in Aud right now, but they're not that expensive anymore. And I'm talking about NvMe SSD that you can kind of plug in and then run that here. Now, this is really cool. Just another low power device that's able to run an Ethereum full node and validators. But the reason why I thought it was topical to talk about was because I've had an experience lately which I want to share with you guys regarding a low power device. So you guys know I got the Proteus device, that orange box, little orange box with the deli gwe faceplate on it that I posted to Twitter before. And that box is basically a rock five b board that's been preloaded with an image that allows you to easily set up a rocker pool node.
00:05:39.844 - 00:06:13.622, Speaker A: Now, what I've done is, and it's an all in one device. It includes solid state drive and all the good stuff that you need there. But what I've done is I've basically reimaged it. I put on a fresh kind of image of Ubuntu server, and then I've installed. I've installed solar validators on there, and it is the box that I'm using to stake my retirement funds on. Now, I've been doing that for a little while, and then. And just recently, what ended up happening was that I was noticing that my retirement fund validators, my solo validators, were randomly missing attestations.
00:06:13.622 - 00:06:32.464, Speaker A: And for the life of me, I could not figure it out. Like, I had tried so many different things. I was looking at the firewall stuff, just general networking things. I was wondering if there was kind of a problem with my ISP. But it wasn't happening on any of my other boxes. It wasn't happening on my solo box or my rocker pull box. So I was like, okay, maybe it's got to do with the Proteus hardware.
00:06:32.464 - 00:07:22.724, Speaker A: Maybe after all this hardware can't run validators as effectively as. As other hardware can. Well, long story short, after doing all that troubleshooting, I ended up figuring out that the issue actually lied within the unmanaged network switch that I was using. That is a ubiquiti device, but it's one of their cheaper switches that I had just gotten for connecting devices that didn't require a lot of bandwidth to but in the mix. And because I don't really keep as good of a track of my networking as I should have, I inadvertently connected my Proteus box, my rocker pool Odao box, and my archive note box to the same, like, little shitty unmanaged switch. And it was overloading the poor thing, right? Because you can imagine the amount of bandwidth that three El Cl combos is taking up. It's a lot.
00:07:22.724 - 00:07:49.990, Speaker A: Just to give you some context here, I have four total El Cl combos going. So I have my prots Morocco pool box, my archive box, and my solo box. And it's using about 500 gig a day, which is 15 terabytes a month. And that's not including the rest of the stuff on my network. Obviously, all the other stuff that's going on, all the wifi devices, everything like that. So it's using a lot of bandwidth. Now, I was feeding three quarters of that into this one little switch, so of course I upgraded the switch to a.
00:07:49.990 - 00:08:26.594, Speaker A: To a much better one. And it's been fine ever since. It wasn't the approach box and the Proteus box has actually been incredible in terms of resiliency. And now that it's all well and good with the bandwidth issues, it is at 99% effectiveness. Getting 100% is always going to be very, very difficult for a variety of different reasons, but it is at 99%, and pretty much 99% of my attestations now have a zero inclusion delay, and I'm not missing any attestations at all. So just like a TLDR there. On my experience with low powered hardware, not this device exactly that's on my screen, but a rock five b board that I've discussed before.
00:08:26.594 - 00:08:49.040, Speaker A: It worked really, really well, and it's worked well ever since I fixed that issue a few days ago. And as I said, I haven't missed any attestations. And it's so awesome because the box is literally sitting in front of me on my desk right here. This little box. It is honestly so small, guys. It could fit anywhere. It could be mistaken for a little network streaming box or, sorry, I should say, a streaming box, like an Apple TV or something like that.
00:08:49.040 - 00:09:20.950, Speaker A: It's not as small as an Apple TV. It's maybe double the size height wise, but yeah, it's super small and it's just sitting there. It's just got USB C power running to it with an ethernet cable and that's all that's plugged into it. And then I can ssh into it on my home network and manage it all through that. And as I said, it has been amazing. The only thing, thing that I could possibly knock it for is that it takes a little bit longer to upgrade because I recently did the upgrades for the Chappelle fork. A little bit longer to upgrade and make the software than my solo box.
00:09:20.950 - 00:09:36.014, Speaker A: But my solo box is completely overkill. It's got high end parts in it and it's not that much faster. So yeah, I mean, but everything else works fine. I've rebooted it a bunch of times. It automatically spins everything back up again. My validators, my full nodes and everything. And it runs perfectly fine.
00:09:36.014 - 00:10:14.602, Speaker A: So if you are in the market for, you know, hardware to be a Rockapool mini pool on or to solo validate, I would suggest seeing if you could get your hands on a Proteus for rocker pool mini pools because it comes preloaded with everything you need. But if you want to put solo validators on it, you can buy a Rok five b board and do it all yourself and get really, get really into it if you'd like. Or you can buy an orange PI five as well because that apparently works for this too. But that was just my experience with things. Just really funny how it was the switch in the end because I was actually working with, with age Manning from the Sigma prime team. He was a champion, by the way. Like, he, I kept annoying him like every day.
00:10:14.602 - 00:10:34.734, Speaker A: I'm like, dude, like, I don't know what's wrong. And he was giving me all these troubleshooting steps. Cause I was, I'm using lighthouse, the client on there. And yeah, he was telling me all this stuff and I learned a ton about things and we just couldn't figure it out. And then eventually I'm like, hey, man, like, yeah, it was, it was the switch. And then he's like, ah, geez. That was like, you know, it's not something you think of really, that that's an issue there.
00:10:34.734 - 00:11:06.842, Speaker A: But it was. And I don't think it was the switch itself that was the issue. I think it was the fact that I was just overloading it with, with a huge amount of bandwidth and it just, the poor thing couldn't handle it right. But anyway, I'm going to leave that one at that. Just a little story that I figured was worth sharing with you guys from my experience, because I'm running a lot of different software right now for validating on a lot of different clients my network. I'm lucky that I have a gigabit Internet with unlimited data so I can do all this and not have to worry about that. But of course, you need to make sure your networking gear is up to scratch, and it is now, the rest of my network works perfectly fine.
00:11:06.842 - 00:11:35.300, Speaker A: As I said, my entire network is running on ubiquity gear, which for those of you who don't know what that is, it's high end networking gear. It's really friendly to use. It's got a really nice interface. It's not like your classic router interfaces that you may be used to that really suck and are just really bare bones. They call it. The Unifi interface is really, really good. So not trying to show you on it or anything, I'm not paid by ubiquity to shill it, but it is very great networking gear once you've got all the right parts and you're using it correctly.
00:11:35.300 - 00:12:04.030, Speaker A: But anyway, moving on from that last subject on Ethereum, staking Seawolf, which is one of Swell's testnets, has gone live on girly. You can now test swell's new architecture and see the slick new interface in action. And there's a how to participate article that they've put out here. It's very short and it's got links to everything you need. And then they've also asked when Mainnet are. They're expecting Mainnet to go live in April 2023, of course. So right around the time when withdrawals are live.
00:12:04.030 - 00:12:43.286, Speaker A: So just a shout out there about swell. You can go check it out for yourself. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below. All right, so a big announcement out of Eigen layer. So they have announced that they've raised a $50 million funding round, a series a round led by blockchain capital with participation from a bunch of other funds and VC's here. Now, of course I need to disclose that I participated in this round, but any of you guys who have been hearing me talk about Eigen layer for many months now would not be surprised by that, because I do believe Eigen layer is a really, really innovative and cool product that's coming to the Ethereum ecosystem. Now, I know that there are certain views on this.
00:12:43.286 - 00:13:07.862, Speaker A: And there are people that I've spoken to, a few of them at ETH Denver, that have reservations about Eigen layer for multiple different reasons. And I totally understand that. I totally understand the reservations here. But I look at this and I'm like, you know what? I think this is a really cool, novel thing that I want to see built within the Ethereum ecosystem. If it works as advertised, great. If it doesn't work, well, at least we tried. I'm all for experimentation.
00:13:07.862 - 00:13:51.424, Speaker A: You guys know that I love experimentation within the Ethereum ecosystem. Even if it event, if it doesn't end up being anything serious down the line, it doesn't end up actually working. Now, of course, I don't believe that about Eigen layer. I believe that what they're building is going to be a really big part of the Ethereum ecosystem with restaking, with being able to spin up various different services because of that. You guys know I've talked about being able to set up really cool data availability committees, Oracle networks, any, any kind of thing that needs security and that doesn't want to have to bootstrap it itself and can get that security from restaked ETH, for example, I think is very cool. But, but yeah, I guess congrats to Eigen layer on this round. Really, really great to see that they were able to raise, you know, a lot of money in a bear market, to be fair.
00:13:51.424 - 00:14:21.200, Speaker A: Right. This will give them a ton of Runway to execute on their vision here. And it's, and it's funny because Eigen layer, it's not new now, I guess, but it is relatively new on the scene. It's obviously not live yet. It's obviously a novel idea and something that has been in research and development phase for quite a while. But in terms of the project actually being very public, that's, that's relatively new as well. And I think that with this new round of funding, they're going to be able to hire the people that they need to hire, be able to get to get to mainnet earlier than they otherwise anticipated.
00:14:21.200 - 00:15:08.992, Speaker A: And they've got a lot of really cool people and firms helping them out. As I said, there are a bunch of, of firms that, that participated in this round, and there are a bunch of angel investors as well, alongside me, some really cool people like Tim Bico and Victor Bunin here, as you can see, named, and there, there were a bunch of others, but they're not named here. So I'm not going to, not going to name them, of course, but there were a lot of people that were part of this round and, and they'll be able to help Eigen layer with whatever, you know, skills that they have there. So. So yeah, I guess once again, congrats to Eigen layer on this raise, and I can't wait to see them build out their protocol. All right, another, I guess, protocol that raised recently that I thought was really interesting that I wasn't a part of this round, just disclosure there as well. But they're called conduit, and now they raised and announced themselves at the same time.
00:15:08.992 - 00:15:46.994, Speaker A: So what conduit is, is basically they're calling themselves a crypto native infrastructure platform. You can launch a roll up in just a few clicks using the op stack. Now, I've talked about a few of these solutions before, such as stack and network and sovereign and a few others out there that basically allow you to spin up a roll up relatively quickly and essentially spin up a roll up. As easy it is. As easy as it is to spin up an ERC 20 token, for example. Now, as I said, this is built on the op stack, powered by optimism, of course, and it's already live on Mainnet and you can already use it. This is not something that is coming in 612 months.
00:15:46.994 - 00:16:23.458, Speaker A: This is something that can already be used by anyone, developers, hobbyists. Whoever wants to use it can, can use it. Now, I didn't mention that they raised as well. They raised a $7 million round led by paradigm, with a participation from a bunch of other investors, of course. But, but yeah, this is very cool, because as I say here, the conduit op chains are secured by Ethereum, operated and maintained by a conduit team of professionals. And they come equipped with block explorers, transaction traces, auto scalable rpcs and more here. And that it'll be integrated into the optimism super chain with roll ups like base.
00:16:23.458 - 00:17:08.406, Speaker A: You know, I've talked about optimism super chain before, where essentially they want to make like an ecosystem of different op chains that all talk to each other as part of this super chain, all secured by Ethereum. And I think that something like this was obviously needed on top for that vision to be realized. Because if people are going to build their own application specific chains and they're going to use the op stack to do that, well, you need to make it as easy as possible to do that. And that's exactly what conduit does here. And this got me thinking as well, because remember how dy DX actually said that they wanted to have more control over their, I guess, roll up, and they wanted to be able to decentralize it and stuff like that. And they weren't able to do that at the time with star quest technology. And now they're doing a cosmos chain.
00:17:08.406 - 00:17:40.294, Speaker A: Well, I mean, now they can do the. Do it with an op chain, with conduit, right. They don't even have to really do anything. And their cosmos chain, as far as I know, isn't going live until the end of the year. And I shouldn't say Cosmos channels, it should say the kind of cosmos SDK tendaming chain. But from what I know, it won't go live to the end of the year, whereas they could get it up and running with conduit in a much shorter timeframe from, from what I can tell here, and I'm sure someone will do that. Not do I dX specifically, but someone will do a similar kind of perp exchange on the op stack here.
00:17:40.294 - 00:18:06.190, Speaker A: Um, and don't. And don't. And I guess, like, on that note as well, uh, don't be. Be kind of, like, fooled. This is a competitor to, to the cosmos ecosystem. I think roll ups in general are competitors to layer ones on the execution side of things. But in terms of actually competing directly with an ecosystem, well, the cosmos ecosystem is all about having app chains, uh, specifically sovereign app chains, which I'm kind of bearish on generally.
00:18:06.190 - 00:18:45.190, Speaker A: I don't think that most applications, or pretty much all of them, need sovereignty. So this is a, this is a competition to that in competition to that, basically, where you can spin up these conduit chains, they aren't fully sovereign like you would get from a Cosmos chain. But as I said, I don't think most things need that. They're secured by ethereum. They use a battle tested a code base like op stack, and they allow for the instant pluggable plug ability into the optimism super chain, which can benefit from shared interoperability with other ecosystems, such as base, such as the optimism network, which is obviously very, very cool. But anyway, enough on conduit. You can go check them out for yourself.
00:18:45.190 - 00:19:19.434, Speaker A: I'll link their thread in the YouTube description below. Speaking of l two s, Bartech has put out a thread where he says big congrats to Polygon for launching their ZKVM. Here are a few things that you may assume about ZK rollups, but you will find here different and should be aware of. So, basically, uh, your existing knowledge of ZK roll ups may not apply to polygons. ZKe, EVM and Bartech did this thread to make sure that you basically know the differences there. Now, the thread also links to a few of different things. A few different things, which of course I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:19:19.434 - 00:19:59.154, Speaker A: But it's obviously using the L two beat website here to make sure that it's all documented and recorded using their little rosette feature that I covered the other day, and also their more in depth risk analysis. So I just wanted to highlight that for you guys to check out. I'll link that in the YouTube description below. All right, so something I came across from the general, General Galactic Corporation. They've launched something called Skyteller in Alpha. So apparently the way this works is that Skytella will allow you will gives your bank account an ETH address and lets you cash out your crypto directly to your bank. So Skyteller is your personal off ramp.
00:19:59.154 - 00:20:48.248, Speaker A: That's easy to set up, reasonable with KYC, super easy to use, and us only for now. So if you go into this to the website here, you can kind of connect your wallet and get started. As I said, it's us only right now. Basically, what, what Skyteller, from my understanding, is trying to do, it's trying to make the process of on and off ramping from the fiat world, from the traditional finance world as absolutely seamless as possible and is integrated within the crypto defi, Ethereum Defi world as possible. So that essentially you get a very similar experience, whether you're interacting with Ethereum Defi and Ethereum on chain stuff and, and the traditional finance world. This is what we need more of now, obviously, it's going to have its own, I guess, like drawbacks in that you still need to do KYC. Right.
00:20:48.248 - 00:21:11.490, Speaker A: You're still at the mercy of the banks themselves and the traditional system itself. They can still, I guess, rug you for whatever reason they want to. It's not decentralized, obviously, but at the end of the day, as long as I think it's a step above what we currently have, it's something worth paying attention to. It's something worth putting your weight behind. And that's exactly why I have highlighted it on the refuel. Now you can go read more about them in, on their website. Of course.
00:21:11.490 - 00:21:27.010, Speaker A: They've got an faq here, I believe, down the bottom. I remember seeing it. No, somewhere there. It's somewhere on the website. I was playing around with it the other day where you can learn more about this. But as I said, it is an alpha. So be sure that you keep, keep that in mind when interacting with it.
00:21:27.010 - 00:22:23.558, Speaker A: But just another really cool tool to bridge the defi and traditional finance systems. All right, now, something very, very cool that I came across, and I actually shared this in the Delaware Discord channel, was something built by Bankerson here, which is the first version of something they're calling Zkshield, which is a private multi seq with hidden owners under the hood. It uses account abstraction and zero knowledge proofs to keep the signers from being exposed on chain. Now, I spoke about this a few days ago, if not last week, about how when you set up a multi sig, you typically know who's on that multi seq in terms of the addresses. Obviously, if the address hasn't been doxed, you won't know who the person is, but you know the addresses here. Well, with this new tool, the ZK shield tool that has been developed, you no longer know that, as I said, it is now fully private. There is no signers that are exposed on chain as part of this multi sig.
00:22:23.558 - 00:22:56.352, Speaker A: This private multi sig. This is huge, guys. Like, not just huge from a kind of privacy perspective, but huge from a security perspective as well, because it means that even if you know that something is a multi sig, say something is protected by a multisig, you will, you don't actually know who the sign is right now. Of course, you can say who the signers are. You can say that the publicly. Okay, the sign is that this, this and this person. But you won't be able to map those people to an address, right, to a multi sig address.
00:22:56.352 - 00:23:50.918, Speaker A: So I think, honestly, overall, it increases security of multi sigs like this, and it also makes it easier for everyday people and makes it more worthwhile for them to set up multi sigs. Because as I spoke about, in relation to Vitalik's blog post where he basically said, well, his Reddit post where he basically said that he thinks that multi sigs are the most secure way to secure your assets. If you want to have a multi sig with, say, your, one of your parents, maybe your best friend, and maybe one other person that you trust, none of them will be able to see who the other sign is, and it will only be you that knows it. So that solves that issue of having to trust that these other people won't collude with each other. You just simply don't tell them who. You don't tell them who they are, and then it's all well and good, right? Unless they somehow figure it out in another way, but it increases security there. And that's what got me really excited when I saw this.
00:23:50.918 - 00:24:17.934, Speaker A: I was like, okay, wow, this is, this is really good for that use, case in particular. So you can go check this out on GitHub for yourself. I don't believe it's live or anything as an app, uh, as. As an app online yet. I think you can run it locally or something like that. And it's still, obviously very early stages here, but it works, from what I can tell, so very, very cool. Um, and, uh, and, and thanks to bankers and for developing this and putting this out there, I'm going to be keeping an eye on this myself.
00:24:17.934 - 00:25:24.966, Speaker A: All right, so something called the 4626 alliance has been announced. Now, this alliance is basically being stood up to lead is an initiative that's been stood up to advance the development of the ERC 4626 standard. Now, the alliance has a bunch of different members from the Defi ecosystem, a part of it, such as balancer, Maple finance, mstable, aztec network, there's Alchemyx, there's a bunch of different logos here that you can check out. But EFC 4626 is one of the coolest standards within DeFi because it's the standard for tokenized vaults, which is what a lot of DeFi users for, things like yield generation. Right. And you can check out ERC 4626 dot in fo for more information about the alliance itself and more of the members and funds that they've raised and how they're actually, how 4626 is supercharging the DeFi ecosystem and how they're all working together. The website's actually pretty information dense, and you can get a lot of information about it here with a bunch of news and things as well.
00:25:24.966 - 00:26:21.956, Speaker A: So I'll link that in the YouTube description below. But great to see this, great to see that there's more initiatives, more alliances being stood up within DeFi, within all these different protocols. I think that deFi, as I've said plenty of times before, on the refuel, it's kind of like a thing that is there. We know it's going to be bigger, but it's not very exciting for most people. And I've said, I said this a long time ago on the refuel, basically in the earliest days of the refuel, where I said that DeFi is going to be the biggest use case for ethereum, for crypto, but it is going to be one of the least exciting ones. So after the initial DeFi summer happened, since then, DeFi hasn't really been viewed as an exciting thing because it's really just core infrastructure that needs to be built to enable so many other things, right? And because of that, and you basically have this ecosystem that's built on the kind of ground floor that everyone uses, but they aren't necessarily excited about, which I think is a healthy thing. I don't think there's anything wrong with that, but that doesn't surprise me at all.
00:26:21.956 - 00:26:52.636, Speaker A: And this is one of those things, right? No one's excited about a 4626 alliance because they can't really speculate on it, right? And it's something that seems relatively boring. But there's going to be a lot of people that use this because they want the yield, they want to play around with these protocols, they want to use them, they want to make money, and that's enabled by things like this, by like these alliances. So, I mean, I'm personally excited about it, but people don't get excited about defi like they do nFts, right. For example. And as I said, that's totally fine. But anyway, you can check this out, I'll link it in the YouTube description below. All right.
00:26:52.636 - 00:27:35.530, Speaker A: Last thing I wanted to talk about was a reply that I gave in a thread here about L2 fees. Now I'm talking about this because someone in the deli grade discord channel wanted me to talk about it, but basically someone asked me, why do you think EIP 4844 is a good upgrade for ETH when it reduces ETH value accrual and gives l two s a free ride on ethereum security? Don't you think ETH stakers should be compensated for their risk service? And I replied by saying, because if Ethereum doesn't scale, then nothing else really matters. Right? Also, I don't think l two s are free writing. Their data will expire after a month, and if they want to keep it, they'll have to store it themselves. Most of its value accrual does not come from fee revenue, in my opinion. Now there are three statements there. I'm going to break each one down.
00:27:35.530 - 00:28:11.404, Speaker A: The first one, me saying if Ethereum doesn't scale, then nothing else really matters. I mean, that, I think is pretty obvious to everyone at this stage. It's all well and good for Ethereum to be valuable and for it to be valuable based on things like being a store of value and stuff like that. But Ethereum as a platform is not like the bitcoin network. The bitcoin network doesn't want to really do anything else, or at least most people don't want the bitcoin network to do anything else. Except secure BTC. There are some things that are happening on there with Taproot and the ordinal stuff, but really no one or most bitcoiners do not want bitcoin, the bitcoin network, to be anything like the Ethereum network.
00:28:11.404 - 00:29:02.956, Speaker A: And you know that in any aspect, in aspects of executing complex transactions and scaling and all that sorts of stuff, whereas Ethereum is totally different. Ethereum needs to scale and we are scaling, don't get me wrong, obviously we're scaling, but if it doesn't scale, then I don't think anything else we're doing matters. It doesn't matter how cool we make proof of stake, doesn't matter how cool, how much value we, how much value capture, or how well, how good we design ETH as a value capture token. None of that matters, right? Scaling is what matters, I think pretty much like as the number one thing, at least for the foreseeable future. So hopefully that I think is relatively obvious. The second statement I said here, I said that I don't think l two s are free riding in a post ERP 4844 world because their data will expire after a month. Now with 4844, it introduces a new transaction type called blob transactions, and that effectively replaces call data.
00:29:02.956 - 00:29:30.658, Speaker A: And it will be where the roll ups store their call data on. Now, it's not stored on Ethereum layer one forever, it's not stored on the full nodes forever. It's only stored for a month. And if you want to keep that data longer than a month, what you have to do is essentially download it yourself, right? You can store it yourself. Anyone can store the data themselves, or the l two s themselves have to store it if they want to access it as well. That means that they're not free riding. They're actually getting like a kind of a trade.
00:29:30.658 - 00:30:08.846, Speaker A: We're basically saying to the l two s, hey, you can have really cheap transactions and really cheap block space on Ethereum, but we're only going to give you that for a month. And then after a month your data needs to be stored by you if you want to keep it. So I don't think there's any free riding happening here, really. It's just, it's a kind of trade, right? Mutual trade, I believe in terms of giving the l two something that they want and then saying to them, but, but there's like an asterisk there. We're not going to store the data forever because that would obviously bloat the chain and make, and the costs of people running full nodes would be, it would be greater than what they are today. And that's part of the trade off space there. So that's why I don't think they're free riding.
00:30:08.846 - 00:30:53.328, Speaker A: And then finally I said, I don't believe most, most of its value accrual comes from free revenue. And I've said this multiple times on the, on the refuel before, even though I'm super excited about ERP 1559 and deflationary ETH, and I'm always very excited to see that the Ethereum blocks, that Ethereum block space is being used and people are paying for it. That's all well and good, but primarily I believe ETH value comes from being a store of value and accruing monetary premium. Now obviously the fear of renew can feed into that, it can make it more valuable, but it's not the primary driver of that. And I think it's use as collateral within defi ETH uses money ETH users as a staking asset. Those are all above in terms of my list, right? Number one, store of value. Two, monetary properties.
00:30:53.328 - 00:31:22.872, Speaker A: Three, collateral. Four, I guess it's uses money and then five would be fair for you. Maybe four and five can be switched. But generally that's why I don't believe, I don't believe that most of its value accrual comes for it from its use as a fee token. And I believe that the burn and deflationary ETH is really just a bonus. And, and what it does is it makes, creates a symbiotic relationship between the people who use the network and the people who secure the network, the validators and which are ETH holders, obviously, as well. So that's how I view that.
00:31:22.872 - 00:31:44.696, Speaker A: But yeah, I could go on about this for a lot longer, but I've gone over time here, so I don't want to, don't want to kind of bore you with the intricate details, but that's how I view these things. And hopefully that was, that was a good breakdown for tiki torture. I believe in the Discord channel who asked me to cover this. So. Yeah, anyway, on that note, that's going to be it for today's episode. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel.
00:31:44.696 - 00:31:51.344, Speaker A: If you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to the newsletter, join the Discord channel, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks everyone. Bye.
