00:00:06.730 - 00:01:01.114, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. The SEC goes after BlockFi for $100 million BlockFi, a popular crypto lender, is paying $50 million to the US. Securities and Exchange Commission and $50 million across 32 states to settle investigations into whether Block blockfly's interest earning accounts in which customers lend digital assets to Blockfly in return for yield are a securities offering. Current customers will remain unaffected by the settlement, though they will not be able to deposit more crypto into their accounts, and Blockfly will discontinue offering it to new US. Customers. As part of the settlement, Blockfly will be filing an S one for a Blockfly yield product, which would allow the lender to offer interest earning accounts to US. Customers as the security registered with the SEC, said SEC Chair Gary Gensler in a press release.
00:01:01.114 - 00:02:12.278, Speaker A: This is the first case of its kind with respect to crypto lending platforms. Today's settlement makes clear that crypto markets must comply with time tested securities laws. SEC Commissioner Hester Purse had a different take on the settlement writing Is the approach we are taking with crypto lending the best way to protect crypto lending customers? I do not think it is so I respectfully dissent. She went on to add, It is difficult to understand how the civil penalty will protect investors and called on the SEC to do a better job in accommodating innovation rather than hurting companies who attempt to work under the scope of US. Regulation. The BlockFi settlement does not come as a surprise, as the lender has been under scrutiny since last summer, when five states issued either cease and desist or show cause notices against BlockFi. Crypto's Super Super Bowl Performance While the Rams and Bengals battled in Los Angeles, crypto fought to make it fully mainstream, with multiple crypto exchanges taking out commercials during last weekend's Super Bowl, Coinbase, FTX and Crypto.com
00:02:12.278 - 00:02:58.962, Speaker A: Disclosure, a sponsor each ran ads, and TurboTax and Etoro mentioned crypto. Coinbase ran its ad in the first quarter. In an on brand move, the company purchased a minute long ad showing a QR code bouncing across the screen. Viewers who scanned it were prompted to download the app and participate in a $3 million giveaway. Data from the Block shows that the ad was a roaring success, with the exchange jumping from 186 to two on the App Store in the day following the Super Bowl. And speaking of on brand, Coinbase had to briefly throttle back access to its website due to increased traffic. Where Coinbase stayed simple, FTX swung for the fences.
00:02:58.962 - 00:03:27.438, Speaker A: Its ad was headlined by the famous comedian Larry David from Curb Your Enthusiasm in Seinfeld faux denouncing inventions like democracy, portable music and, of course, crypto. Crypto.com also ran an ad starring NBA superstar LeBron James. JP. Morgan in the metaverse JP. Morgan, the largest bank in the US. Is now a proud resident of Decentraland the Play to Earn Metaverse game.
00:03:27.438 - 00:04:14.778, Speaker A: This week, the bank opened up a Metaverse branch called the Onyx by Morgan Lounge, located in the Metajuku Mall. In decentraland Metaverse, natives who visit the Onyx are greeted with a portrait of CEO Jamie Dimon framed in the lobby. Also featured is a timeline of Morgan's blockchain history. Upstairs, visitors can listen to analysts talking about crypto via virtual TVs attached to the virtual wall. One humorous addition is a pet tiger pacing the foyer, which is a stroke of genius, according to Bloomberg's Matt Levine. I feel like the tiger is a good idea. If you walk into the offices of an investment bank, there should be a roaming tiger to make you nervous, keep you on your toes.
00:04:14.778 - 00:04:57.238, Speaker A: Obviously in a real bank, the tiger would pose liability problems. It might eat the clients, or the bankers for that matter, but in the Metaverse it is just some nice symbolism, wrote Levine. J. P. Morgan's crypto team onyx also published an 18 page paper outlining its metaverse thesis. In its report, JPMorgan revealed a bullish outlook for the Metaverse. The asymmetrical risk of being left behind is worth the incremental investment needed to get started and to explore this new digital landscape for yourself, the bank recommended our longstanding core competencies in crossborder payments, foreign exchange, financial assets, creation, trading and safekeeping.
00:04:57.238 - 00:06:15.170, Speaker A: In addition to our at scale, consumer foothold can play a major role in the JP. Morgan team concluded. Canada Blocks Bitcoin and Ethereum Transactions from Truckers Reports indicate that Canada's Royal Canadian Mounted Police, aka Mounties and Ontario Provincial Police are barring all firms, including cryptocurrency exchanges registered with Canada's antimoney laundering authority FinTrack from Transacting with 34 cryptocurrency addresses tied to funding the truckerled protests in the country. The protests begin in January over Canada's vaccination requirements for all entrants of the country. The protests were deemed illegal by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau this week via the Emergencies Act, giving banks the power to immediately freeze or suspend bank accounts tied to the truckers for 30 days. In a leaked document, it appears that Canadian authorities believe this power extends to crypto addresses. Regulators ordered crypto exchanges to cease facilitating any transactions associated with 34 crypto addresses, where donors had already sent more than 20 BTC in an attempt to continue funding the protests once Canadian authorities froze the $9 million that had been donated to GoFundMe.
00:06:15.170 - 00:07:06.790, Speaker A: Notably, Canada's decision had many on crypto Twitter pointing to Bitcoin for years, it was difficult to explain to Canadians why Bitcoin is necessary. It was always a conversation of yes, banks are currently reliable in Canada, but they aren't in other countries. Now their own bank account is at risk. The transition is inevitable, wrote Atomic Wallet cofounder Matt black trust makes the Travel Rule a reality. 18 companies have banded together to bring antimoney laundering technologies to digital assets via a coalition called Travel Rule Universal Solution Technology or Trust. Headed by Coinbase. The group includes other industry leaders like Anchorage, BitCo, BlockFi, Circle, fidelity Digital assets paxos, Kraken and Robinhood.
00:07:06.790 - 00:08:00.806, Speaker A: Essentially, the group was formed to implement the travel rule recommended by the Financial Action Task Force, which requires financial institutions to store information about customers with transaction partners. According to Coinbase, Trust is built in such a way to protect the security and privacy of customers'personal information which is of paramount importance in the privacy focused blockchain space. The coalition has a three part plan to make this happen. One, information will be sent directly from Exchange to exchange via encrypted channels. Exchanges must provide their identity before receiving customer payments. And finally, coalition members must meet core antimoney laundering security and privacy requirements through a partnership with compliance and risk management firm Exiger. The group does not plan to stay at 18 or in the US.
00:08:00.806 - 00:08:51.670, Speaker A: The next step is adding new members so that Trust can provide comprehensive compliance across the crypto industry. The travel rules reach is expanding internationally, and so must the Trust solution. Trust is focused on expanding to many other jurisdictions this year, concluded Coinbase in its launch statement. Sequoia Goes Crypto Sequoia Capital, a prominent venture capital firm based in Silicon Valley, is moving into the crypto space in a big way. Sequoia is looking to raise between $500 million to $600 million in its first sectorspecific crypto fund. According to its press release. Sequoia's foray into the crypto space will be focused primarily on liquid, tokens and digital assets, and Sequoia plans to dabble in staking providing liquidity and governance of protocols.
00:08:51.670 - 00:09:22.078, Speaker A: Sequoia has previously invested in FTX, Block, Starquare and Fireblocks. Time for fun bits. The generational gap is real. And here we are going to talk about two stories. First this week, Charlie Munger, Berkshire Hathaway's 98 year old vice chairman, had a few choice words for cryptocurrency. I certainly didn't invest in crypto. I'm proud of the fact that I've avoided it.
00:09:22.078 - 00:09:54.582, Speaker A: It's like some venereal disease or something. I just regard it as beneath contempt. I admire the Chinese for banning it. I think they were right and we, the US. Have been wrong to allow it, he said. And yes, he did just compare crypto to an STD. On the other hand, Paradigm, one of the most respected firms in crypto and a recent investor in Citadel securities, just hired a high schooler as a research engineer.
00:09:54.582 - 00:10:29.570, Speaker A: The engineer, who goes by Transmissions Eleven, was a core developer and founding member of Rari Capital and will work at Paradigm on lowering transaction fees. Humorously Transmission Eleven's Bio says, quote, in his spare time, he attends high school in California. All right, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Congressman Kana, please check out the show notes for this episode. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Daniel Ness, Shashank and CLK transcription thanks for listening.
