00:00:00.920 - 00:00:34.384, Speaker A: You're now listening to Alpha Leak, a podcast mini series highlighting the most under the radar projects and developments in crypto, and this series is brought to you by the Blockcrunch podcast. I'm your host, Jason Choi. I'm a general partner at Spartan Capital and an active defi angel investor. Nothing on this show should be construed as financial advice, and my guests, myself, and my employer may hold positions and assets discussed on the show. And if you'd like for your project to be featured on this series, reach out to me on Twitter mrjasonchoi. This episode of the Blockcrunch podcast is brought to you by Coinflex and Paraswap. Stick around to learn more.
00:00:34.544 - 00:01:30.224, Speaker B: Hey, everybody. Welcome back to another episode of the Blockcrunch podcast. So lately a lot of people have been talking about a project called Celestia. And if you're not deep in the consensus layer stuff or how layer one blockchains work under the hood, this discussion might be a bit abstract, but for those interested, I think Celestia represents a paradigm change and how blockchains are built. So Justice Solana proposed this super fast, monolithic blockchain in response to this sharding, sharded scale by splitting across many chains approach championed by Ethereum, Polkadot, and Cosmos celestial, proposes something completely different and incredibly innovative, this idea of a modular blockchain. So as for what does that mean, what you can build with it? Does it make previous blockchains obsolete? To answer these big questions, I'm super excited to have my friend Nick White, the COO at Celestia, on the show, to discuss. So, Nick, welcome to the show.
00:01:30.344 - 00:01:33.204, Speaker C: Hey, Jason. Good to be here. Thanks for having me.
00:01:33.504 - 00:01:47.644, Speaker B: So let's dive right into the deep end, because I know a lot of people are dying to understand celestia. So let's start with this idea of data availability, which is at the core of Celestia. So what exactly is data availability? Is that the same thing as status storage?
00:01:47.784 - 00:03:12.194, Speaker C: You know, I'm glad that we're starting with this question, because a lot of people get data availability wrong, because I think the name data availability is really easy to sort of. It's kind of ambiguous and vague. And in fact, even just like a few days ago on Twitter, Chris Dixon tweeted out something saying, calling one of those indexer projects like a data availability service. And so, like, that is one of the common misconceptions is that, like Filecoin or arweave or the graph or all these other projects do data availability when in fact, they don't. What data availability is, is actually an answer to the question, is the data behind a given block available? Has it been published to the network? And it's a really important concept because it's fundamental to the security of all blockchains. So basically, in order to know if a chain is valid, like if a new state update is valid, you have to be able to know what the transactions are behind that state update. So data availability is sort of like, how do you know that all of the data behind a block is there for someone to see and someone to audit? And specifically you want to be able to do that without having to download all of the data.
00:03:12.194 - 00:03:43.912, Speaker C: The naive way to solve this problem is basically you have to download all the data in the block yourself to make sure that it all checks out. But the solution to this is essentially you do something called data availability sampling, where you are able to know that all the data behind the block is there without downloading all of it. That allows you to have bigger blocks without increasing the node requirements for people who want to participate. That's interesting.
00:03:43.968 - 00:03:55.936, Speaker B: And people always talk about this data availability problem and current blockchains. What is that problem exactly? Is there a challenge right now with the way that it's done? Is there a shortcoming with the way that it's done right now? And on Ethereum?
00:03:56.080 - 00:04:56.046, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a good question. So basically you run into this problem when you try to scale blockchains, essentially. So the way that data availability is solved in current blockchains is that every full node just has to download every block. And so the issue with this again is that you run into the problem of if you want to have a bigger block, then you have to have more powerful nodes, right? But the thing is, if you require more powerful nodes, then everyone who wants to participate in that network and verify the chain for themselves has to have more resources. So that becomes sort of like causes centralization. Like why, why does the Ethereum, why does the Ethereum community not just increase the block gas limit? Is because they want to make it so that anyone with a laptop can run a full node on Ethereum. So basically, like the way that you can get around this problem is by solving the data availability problem.
00:04:56.046 - 00:05:23.384, Speaker C: So if it basically makes it so that you can actually have bigger blocks. So it's the equivalent of, you know, increasing the block gas limit, but without making it. So you need a more powerful machine. So that's kind of like the key thing is that you don't, if you don't solve this problem, then you're always kind of stuck within the blockchain, scaling trilemma, where to increase the scale of the chain, you decrease decentralization.
00:05:23.724 - 00:05:33.000, Speaker B: And I guess the Ethereum approach currently is to not scale the change the chain in order to preserve decentralization. Is that, is that a correct synthesis?
00:05:33.132 - 00:06:28.332, Speaker C: Yeah. So the Ethereum community basically has made that decision. If they wanted to, they could have pursued Solana's approach and basically required everyone to run like a bigger, more powerful machine, and therefore they could actually increase the throughput of the network. But they've decided explicitly that they want end users with a laptop to be first class citizens of the network. That is, they can verify the chain for themselves, because that's so critical to decentralization. And, like, if you think about what blockchains are, they are social coordination mechanisms. The whole point is to make it so that two peers on the Internet can basically transact with each other in a trust minimized way, meaning that they don't have to actually worry about a third party trying to break the rules.
00:06:28.332 - 00:06:42.674, Speaker C: Everyone is kind of like obeying by the rules, and that's what end user verifiability gives you, essentially. So that's kind of the reason why ethereum has not pursued the path of Solana, if that makes sense.
00:06:42.834 - 00:07:02.008, Speaker B: Yeah. So just so we understand the problem a little bit more, why do blockchains, why do nodes have to download the entire history of the blockchains? Because there is this concept of, like, clients where they can just maybe download a kind of smaller version of the entire blockchain. Is that a viable solution to solve this trilemma?
00:07:02.096 - 00:08:08.100, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a really good question. So again, by the way, I think maybe I didn't answer the original question about the difference between data availability and storage the first time, so let me also sort of COVID that one more time. So basically, what storage is so, like, these layers, like Filecoin and Arweave, is I want to put data somewhere where it won't disappear. Right. But what data availability is about is, can you prove to me that this data has been published like it's public and it's out there for anyone to see? And so, like, when I'm talking about data availability, I'm not saying that everyone has to download the full history of the chain. I'm just saying that everyone has to have an assurance that the data behind the chain is public. So anyway, now, moving on from that, if, like, lite clients are not a solution to this problem, because what a lite client is, is essentially, it allows you to have a certain threshold of security with a much lower resource node, essentially.
00:08:08.100 - 00:08:54.884, Speaker C: So, like, you can run, for example, a bitcoin lite client on your smartphone. But the thing is that that, like, client makes an honest majority assumption, and that's something that full nodes don't make. And why that's a big deal is that an honest majority assumption means that you are trusting the validator set to uphold the validity rules of the chain. So, essentially, if I'm running a like client, I'm assuming that all the validators are honest. So if they collude, what they can do is they can break. It's not just that they can double spend or do a reorg, it's that they can actually break the very rules of the blockchain. So, for example, they could mint themselves money, or they could steal money from your account without you signing a transaction.
00:08:54.884 - 00:09:09.004, Speaker C: So, like clients, at the end of the day, they allow you to follow the chain, but with a much lower threshold of security. And so you don't really get decentralization. You're not really verifying the chain as an end user.
00:09:09.384 - 00:09:24.324, Speaker B: I hope that answers the question that makes total sense. And I think that's a pretty good pivot to dive into exactly what Celestia is. So, I guess before we kind of go into the nitty gritty, just at a high level elevator pitch, how would you explain Celestia to someone?
00:09:24.704 - 00:10:35.466, Speaker C: Yeah, so, Celestia is the first modular blockchain network. And you can think of it sort of like AWS or cloud computing for web3. So what do I mean by a modular blockchain network? What I mean by that is that it separates the core functions of what every blockchain needs to do to basically build decentralized applications into sort of sub components that are specialized and then can be sort of layered on top of each other to achieve the same result as normal blockchains, but with better security, decentralization, and scale. So a modular blockchain is sort of in contrast to a monolithic chain, where all of these things happen together at the same time by the same validator set. So those core functions that I'm talking about are consensus, data availability, and execution, primarily. You can also throw in settlement there, but we can talk about that later. So, consensus is basically how everyone in the network agrees on the order of events.
00:10:35.466 - 00:11:33.040, Speaker C: So, you know, everyone that's participating in the chain has the same history. Right. They all agree that this is what happened when and in what order. And then from that, you can basically take those transactions and you can interpret them using your state transition function, which basically defines which transactions are valid or invalid. And also with a given valid transaction, what the output of that transaction is. So like, to give maybe an example that people will be familiar with in the Ethereum network, there's Nakamoto consensus, which is sort of like how blocks get added to the chain. So it's how the transactions get ordered, and then you have the EVM sitting on top of it that defines what transactions are valid and how they update your account balance or how they update a given smart contract.
00:11:33.040 - 00:12:20.726, Speaker C: So that's kind of the way to think about it. And so the advantages you get over this is that a modular blockchain, like Celestia specifically, is a blockchain that only does consensus and data availability. There's no execution on chain. There's no smart contract system on chain, which sounds very counterintuitive because it sounds like it's a dumb blockchain. And in fact, the original paper that Mustafa wrote, the co founder, was called lazy Ledger, because essentially what celestia is, is a lazy chain. It does the minimum amount of stuff that you need to be a viable layer one chain and build decentralized applications on top of them. So that's sort of what celestia is.
00:12:20.726 - 00:12:42.506, Speaker C: And execution happens at L2 using constructs like rollups, essentially, that plug into Celestia. They deploy their blocks into celestia, where those blocks are ordered and made available, which is critical to security of those systems. So I'll stop there. But maybe you have more questions you want to ask.
00:12:42.650 - 00:12:52.602, Speaker B: Yeah, definitely. And I guess just to clarify, so is Celestia a platform for people to build blockchains on top of? Or is celestia itself a layer one blockchain?
00:12:52.738 - 00:13:32.208, Speaker C: That's a really good question. So, you know, in the modular. In the modular stack, in fact, you know, Mustafa often says that we need to get away from this nomenclature of layer ones and L2 s and just talk about different layers according to their functions. Right? So because layer one and L2 also kind of implies like a hierarchy. And there's also so much like, I guess, heterogeneity between those. Like, you can have a layer, layer one that just does settlement, for example, or layer one that just has data availability, or you have a layer, you know, there's like, there's a. There's L2s are just execution or L2s that also do set up settlement.
00:13:32.208 - 00:14:42.144, Speaker C: So that it's kind of hard to, um, differentiate all that within this modular scheme. But basically what celestial is, is it is, I would, I would call it a layer one because it does, it is its own chain with its own validator set that comes to consensus and adds blocks to a chain. And essentially what, what Celestia is, is it will enable, it kind of provides this resource of available secure block space for any L2 to basically run whatever kind of virtual machine, decentralized virtual machine they want on top of it. So you can run the EVM, you could run a Cosmos SDK app, you could run a substrate app or a Waza map. Like any kind of execution model you want can be plugged into celestia. And Celestia acts as the consensus and data availability layer that you need to do that. So you no longer would have to deploy a new, like, if you want to deploy a new chain right now, you have to essentially bootstrap a new consensus network and a new proof of stake token, for example.
00:14:42.144 - 00:14:52.314, Speaker C: But Celestia basically obviates that and makes it so that you just pay transaction fees to post your blocks to the celestial layer one.
00:14:52.444 - 00:15:02.634, Speaker B: And is the main reason for separating these different parts of a blockchain into different layers, is the main reason to achieve some sort of scalability?
00:15:02.934 - 00:15:54.814, Speaker C: Yeah, well, there's a lot of different reasons like why you would want to do this. So first and foremost is definitely scalability. So any chain that has execution at the layer one essentially means that if you want to run a full node, you have to re execute all those transactions, typically. Right? Because if I want to know that all those, the state update was correct, I need to basically recompute that myself on my full node. So if you remove execution, all of a sudden you no longer actually have to re execute the transactions, you just have to order them, right? So to celestia, all the transaction data in the blocks is basically just raw zeros and ones. It has no, it doesn't care what, what those transactions are. It can be anything.
00:15:54.814 - 00:16:59.234, Speaker C: And the beauty of that is essentially, as I said, no one has to re execute it. And then, second of all, you only have to provide data availability. And data availability can be solved using a clever sampling technique called data availability sampling, which allows you to essentially increase the block size in proportion to the number of nodes in the network. So unlike a monolithic chain, where no matter how many nodes are in the network, you have a limit to the size of the block, because that basically how if the block gets bigger, as I said, the end users have to run a bigger node so that you kind of have this social contract where you say, I'm not going to have a block that's bigger than this. And in Celestia's case, we can actually increase the block size without requiring larger nodes. We just need more, a total number of a greater number of nodes on the network overall to increase the block size. So that's the scalability part.
00:16:59.234 - 00:18:28.690, Speaker C: But there's a lot of other reasons you actually get better security as well, because essentially if you can sample the layer one, if you can run a data availability sampling client of Celestia, then whenever all the roll ups that are running on top of it also use fraud and validity proofs to basically ensure the state validity of their roll up chain. And essentially the combination of those two things, a data availability proof and a fraud or validity proof, means that I as an end user can verify that that chain is valid without basically on a smartphone or like with very, very low resources. So all of a sudden, you know, most people that are using blockchains are not actually running full nodes, right? We use infuria or we use like some other service that runs a full node for us. But as I said, that doesn't, that means you're trusting an intermediary. So in a modular architecture, you actually get better security because end users are directly verifying the chain. A last benefit is flexibility over execution environments. So because there's no execution environment enshrined at the layer one, as you would have in a monolithic blockchain, you can actually deploy any kind of execution environment you want.
00:18:28.690 - 00:18:36.154, Speaker C: So you have complete freedom there. You're not stuck within like one specific programming environment, like the EVM, for example.
00:18:36.314 - 00:19:03.098, Speaker B: So a little bit of a basic question that people might have is this idea about splitting a blockchain into different parts sounds a little bit like sharding, where you're also kind of splitting a blockchain into, I guess, different chains in this case. So both are some ways of chopping up a blockchain into chunks to process some stuff. So what are the biggest difference between how Polkadot and Cosmos think about scaling and how Celestia thinks about scaling?
00:19:03.186 - 00:19:26.254, Speaker C: That's a really good question. So. Well, Polkadot and Cosmos aren't quite sharding projects. I mean, Polkadot is sort of similar to sharding, but cosmos is more like a network of independent chains. But I'll stick to sharding. So actually, before Celestia, I co founded Harmony, which is a sharded blockchain. So I happen to be kind of familiar there.
00:19:26.254 - 00:20:13.164, Speaker C: The big difference, I would say, is that sharding decentralizes block production. So you get to have lots of different nodes and say you have 1000 nodes and then they each get split up into ten separate shards. So you have 100 nodes in each shard. So all of a sudden it's very easy. It's a lot easier to participate in the network as a block producer. But the thing is block production, making block production more decentralized doesn't actually help with decentralization, because as we talked about, decentralization is actually defined by end user verifiability. And at the end of the day, it's impossible for an end user to verify all the execution happening on all the shards at once.
00:20:13.164 - 00:20:49.122, Speaker C: It might be able to follow one shard, but not all of them. So that's a big difference. Another difference is that a sharding model typically is not flexible. Like every shard runs the same vm, so you don't get to choose a different vm per shard. There can be some degree of customization, but you don't get the full, I would say, spectrum. And then the last part is that sharding is really complex. You have to have these schemes for randomly splitting up the committees so that the people can't collude to basically corrupt just one shard.
00:20:49.122 - 00:21:57.674, Speaker C: So you do kind of. In theory, sharding preserves, has a uniform security across all shards. But in practice, it seems quite plausible to me for an adversary to corrupt a subset like a smaller committee, to basically break the state transition function. So essentially what I'm trying to say is that sharding is, I think, less secure at the end of the day than something like Celestia, which basically, you know, via data availability sampling. All the roll ups that are running on top of celestia kind of have uniform security vis a vis sort of like the data availability and consensus. But the thing is, there are some similarities, like you kind of pointed out, which is that you can kind of, it's a similar model. You can almost think of Celestia like a beacon chain, like a very, very high, highly scalable beacon chain, and the roll ups as sort of shards that are running off of that beacon chain and they're posting their blocks back there.
00:21:57.674 - 00:22:05.254, Speaker C: And so it does have, there are some kind of rhymes with sharding, but I think has a lot of advantages.
00:22:05.434 - 00:22:34.478, Speaker B: That makes a lot of sense. And we've talked about data, data availability sampling now. So I want to make sure that we dive deep into it for listeners to understand here. So can you explain, I guess, in terms of current blockchains out there today, how do they deal with, I guess, validating data availability and how Celestia does it? And where did this idea of data availability sampling came from?
00:22:34.606 - 00:23:24.306, Speaker C: Yeah, that's a really good question. So, current blockchains, the reason you don't hear about data availability as a problem much with sort of traditional blockchains is that it's solved implicitly by a requirement for all full nodes to download all the data in a block before they consider it valid. And so basically, the way that it's solved in current blockchains is that every full node downloads all the data. And as I said, that doesn't scale. So the way that Celestia is different is essentially it takes the block data. It has data availability sampling, but in order to do that, you have to construct the block data in a new way. So you have to use erasure coding, which is a sort of a cryptographic primitive that's used in things like CD roms and other things.
00:23:24.306 - 00:25:04.084, Speaker C: And it basically creates redundancy in the data so that, like, whereas your original block may have been 1 mb, all of a sudden it might be, let's say, four megabytes. But the thing is, by creating that redundancy, it becomes harder for a block producer to hide a portion of that block, because the property of ratio coding is such that you only need a subset of the data to recover the whole of the data, if that makes sense. So even if the block producer hides, let's say, three quarters of that block, you can still recover everything. So then the next part is, once you've constructed the block data, that way you have nodes in the network, sample chunks from that block randomly. And essentially, as long as there's enough nodes that are randomly sampling that block, that a large enough portion of that block gets collectively sampled statistically, then, you know, as an individual, if all the random samples that you made came back and checked out, then you know that the full block is available. So essentially what it allows you to do is it allows you to sample, let's say I remember doing some back of the napkin calculations with mustafa, and essentially we were saying something like, you could have a 250 megabyte block, and you, as a sampling node, would only have to sample maybe 180 kb, for example. So you only have to sample a much smaller subset than the full block data.
00:25:04.584 - 00:25:32.810, Speaker A: Before I continue, I'd love to share more about a later sponsor coin flex. Now, Coinflex is an exchange that's been around for a while. They're actually doing $1.5 billion in daily trading volume right now. Recently, their team reached out and walked me through their latest product, the AMM. In short, it lets anybody earn fees as market makers on the Coinflex exchange simply by depositing their assets. As of this recording, the seven day in range average for ETH AMm pool depositors is 82%.
00:25:32.810 - 00:26:11.740, Speaker A: So how does this work? If you're familiar with how other amms out there work, this is very similar. You can basically select what price range to provide liquidity for, and the UI even shows you your risk under different scenarios. I also love that they have this cross collateral system so you can market make in any market you want using pretty much any collateral you have. If you know how to manage your risks, you can even access up to ten x leverage while providing liquidity. So this is one of the most creative ways I've seen a company borrow elements from Defi in a centralized exchange setting. So I highly encourage you to check it out@coinflex.com. Ammunition now, before I continue, I'd love to share one of my favorite products in crypto with you.
00:26:11.740 - 00:26:53.794, Speaker A: Now, whenever I want to trade a token, instead of going to uniswap sushiswap Bancor one x one to see where I can find the best quote, I just go to Paraswap to scan for the best price anywhere, because Paraswap aggregates all the popular Ethereum dexs and saves me a ton of time and headache in finding where I can trade something for the best price and lets me trade in one place. Now, the cool thing is, they've all also integrated with ledger live as well, meaning I can now swap at the best prices directly from my ledger wallet. So seriously, if you're a defi trader and you're worried about the security risks of centralized exchanges, but you also don't want to scour dozens of dexs just to find the best price, you have to check out Paraswap. So head on over to Paraswap IO blockcrunch.
00:26:53.914 - 00:27:25.524, Speaker B: That makes a lot of sense. And I guess in terms of how celestia does the data availability sampling right now, is there a risk that since you're only selecting a subset of blocks to kind of verify the data with, is there a risk that some, some of the data that is not sampled can be funneled with? And is there a risk that someone can kind of know ahead of time, okay, what data celestial validators will sample? And then I'm going to follow with the data that you're not sampling?
00:27:25.694 - 00:28:16.998, Speaker C: That's a really good question. So again, you rely on strength and numbers. So as long as there's a critical mass of people sampling, then it's essentially impossible that the validator either has to hide the whole block or none of it. There's no in between. So, yeah, it's sort of like a statistical property of this sampling scheme. But the thing is, this is actually a really important point that you brought up, which is that this process also has to be random. And this is why, for example, you can't have a smart contract on Ethereum that samples the data availability of celestia, because, like, just by the nature of being on chain, any smart contract is deterministic.
00:28:16.998 - 00:28:58.304, Speaker C: So as soon as the celestia validators, for example, knew what sort of block data that smart contract was going to request as a sample, they could purposely fool that one smart contract because it's not fully random, if that makes sense. So this is an important reason why we can't provide off chain data availability to other blockchains, or at least trustless off chain data availability. We are actually, in fact, building a data availability bridge to Ethereum. But it does make an honest majority assumption that all the celestial validators are honest.
00:28:58.844 - 00:29:36.872, Speaker B: Just to synthesize what we've discussed so far, data availability problem refers to the problem where how do validators know that the data of a blockchain is fully public, fully verifiable? And the current way that most blockchains seem to do it is they're going to download everything just to prove that it exists out there. Whereas for celestia structures the data in such a way using something called erasure coding, where you only need to download a part of the data to get confidence or probabilistic confidence that all of the data is available. Is that a correct synthesis so far?
00:29:37.008 - 00:30:16.730, Speaker C: Yes, that's exactly right. And I also just want to point out that all cryptographic schemes at the end of the day are probabilistic. So, like, you know, there's always a chance, for example, that there's a hashing collision or that someone found, you know, a way to sign that without knowing your actual private key. So I just want to make it clear that being probabilistic is kind of inherent to every cryptographic scheme. So, and the celestial sort of like, parameters can be chosen to sort of like your degree of confidence that you require, which would be like, you know, very, very, very high, like maybe once in a million years or something.
00:30:16.842 - 00:30:43.784, Speaker B: Got it. Got it. And to put it simplistically, we've talked about Solana a few times as well. So Solana scales through hardware. Basically, you need expensive nodes to continue to scale. So the trade off is maybe there's some centralization because it's, it's getting more and more expensive to run nodes. And then on the ethereum side, ethereum will scale through sharding, and the trade off might be giving up some composability between different shards.
00:30:43.784 - 00:30:49.816, Speaker B: It's hard for shards to talk to each other. So what is Celestia giving up in its model?
00:30:50.000 - 00:32:00.646, Speaker C: Yeah, so as we discussed, if you increase the requirements for nodes, you essentially, I think, trade off decentralization now as compared to, like, sharding, I guess, like, yeah. The difference is that when you pursue this approach of celestia with, with a modular blockchain, you do give up composability. So it is similar to shardy in that sense, because each roll up essentially kind of has its own sovereign execution zone and its own state. And when it wants to talk to another roll up, there has to be sort of a bridge there. And so you can't have an atomic transaction between, from one roll up to another, whereas in a system like Solana or any monolithic chain, you can have, like, full composability or atomicity between transactions. So what I mean by that is like, let's say you have some defi app living on Rollup A and another Defi app running on roll up B. Basically, like, let's say you wanted to make a trade and do a flash loan and then, you know, do some liquidation and bring it back.
00:32:00.646 - 00:32:45.686, Speaker C: You actually couldn't. You're not guaranteed that that transaction will execute all at once. Right? So you do give up this composability. However, the beauty of Celestia is that you still have shared security. So unlike other sort of cross chain models, these roll ups, as long as they're posting, they're both posting to Celestia as their data availability layer. They don't have to make an honest majority assumption about the other roll ups, so they actually can interoperate with the degree of security of a full node, as if basically, like, the bridge between them was being watched over by full node. So, like, one shard.
00:32:45.686 - 00:33:35.508, Speaker C: So maybe I'll take a step back. So when Ethereum, let's say, and Solana are running a bridge between each other, they are actually just running a light client, right? So Solana is running a light client of Ethereum and vice versa. Now, the problem, as we talked about, is that, like, clients are not actually very secure. So if the other chain happens to become malicious, they can break their own rules, but convinced, let's say, Solana validity, become malicious. They can convince the Ethereum chain that they just minted themselves a billion dollars and they can break all kinds of rules, essentially. So what I'm trying to say is that in celestia, rather than running like clients between of each other of these two independent roll ups, they actually just, they have almost. They have basically full node level security.
00:33:35.508 - 00:33:49.864, Speaker C: So roll up b cannot cheat roll up a and vice versa. So you get this very, you get this shared, like, common security layer between roll ups that allows for very rich interoperability.
00:33:50.164 - 00:34:06.254, Speaker B: And I think it's also interesting how you use the word roll up to describe these chains built on top of celestia. Is that the correct terminology to refer to everything built with celestia? Because, you know, I've heard some people use the term shard, or some people even use the word like blockchains built on Celestia.
00:34:06.364 - 00:34:46.764, Speaker C: Yeah, you know, it's a good question. You can think of these, these roll ups as their own blockchains, essentially, because they are completely independent, or as independent as possible from celestia as the base chain. They're just basically piggybacking on the security and consensus of the celestia base chain. But they have complete sovereignty to fork, to upgrade, to do whatever they want, essentially. So they are very independent, as if they're their own chain. It's just that they no longer have to actually run their own consensus. They don't have to have their own consensus network.
00:34:46.764 - 00:35:36.314, Speaker C: But also, I would say that there are lots of different kinds of proposals for L2 schemes, not just roll ups. So people probably have heard of, like, plasma or a bunch of these other schemes. And I think that they'll continue perhaps to be more innovation on this front. There might actually be new kinds of L2 systems that are not roll ups, but all of them essentially can run on top of Celestia. One example of this are volitions. All of a sudden, people who are building zero knowledge roll ups realize that you can have this in between. Layer two is not quite a roll up and not quite plasma, where you essentially choose how much data you want to actually make available and post on chain.
00:35:36.314 - 00:35:49.774, Speaker C: So you kind of get this trade off between security and cost. So, yeah, that's a good way to think about it. But, yeah, these are, for all intents and purposes, as far as we're concerned, independent blockchains.
00:35:50.434 - 00:36:03.880, Speaker B: And just to kind of summarize this part a little bit, how would you communicate to say, a developer wants to build a roll up on Ethereum, or they want to build a roll up on Celestia. What is the one kind of big difference?
00:36:03.992 - 00:36:39.374, Speaker C: There's a few big differences. The first is that at least I'm going to compare it to Ethereum. As of now. Ethereum as of now is a monolithic layer, one that does not actually have a scalable data availability layer. So when you're trying to post your roll up data to Ethereum, you're actually competing with all the other applications currently running on Ethereum, right? So the gas cost is higher, and Ethereum's blocks block space can't scale. So even. Yes, you can.
00:36:39.374 - 00:37:28.464, Speaker C: You can have a total like less by using roll ups. You can, you can have more transactions or more throughput overall using the same block space, but you're still limited. And in Celestia, essentially, there is, it is a blockchain that is specifically built to provide the two things that rollups need, which is consensus and data availability. And because of data availability, sampling the block space can expand as, as demand for that block space increases, you don't reach a fundamental limit. You basically can continue to increase the block space. So essentially the fees for block space should more or less stay constant, regardless of how many people are using the network. So that's a really big one.
00:37:28.464 - 00:38:18.680, Speaker C: The other thing that's, that's quite different is that a monolithic chain. So, and now I'll talk even about Ethereum after they have launched data sharding. So let's say Ethereum has data sharding, right? So essentially they do have a scalable data availability layer like Celestia. The thing is that they will still have a sort of a fully, like a rich, stateful vm on the layer one. And so what that means, unlike Celestia, I can't just run a sampling like client and know that the chain is valid. So in Celestia, that's all I need to do. If I'm running my roll up on top of Celestia, my full nodes for my roll up just have to run a light client of the celestia, or like a light node essentially, that samples the Celestia blockchain.
00:38:18.680 - 00:38:52.660, Speaker C: In Ethereum's case, not only do you have to sample the data shards, but you also have to run a full node of the Ethereum monolithic layer one EVM execution environment to, to make sure that all the state transitions there are also valid. So essentially what I'm trying to say is that running a roll up on Ethereum will require more overhead for the roll up users and the roll up full nodes versus Celestia, which is super minimal, super light, and therefore more efficient.
00:38:52.812 - 00:39:13.512, Speaker B: And with all that being said, I guess zooming out a little bit, would you say the current Ethereum Solana kind of monolithic vision of one chain can coexist with something like Celestia? Or are these two, I guess, by nature, contradictory? That's a good question.
00:39:13.568 - 00:40:01.520, Speaker C: Well, first of all, I want to say that the Ethereum community is very much on board with this modular roadmap. I think that they have made the decision to sort of shed as much as they can, sort of their monolithic origins, and move more and more modular. But to your original question, I think that there is room. Right. I'm not like we have this saying in celestia where we say modularism, not maximalism. And so, you know, our position is not to say that, you know, there's one design to rule them all. I think that, you know, modular blockchains make really, really good trade offs.
00:40:01.520 - 00:41:17.200, Speaker C: And eventually I think we'll be, I do think that they'll probably be, they probably will facilitate a majority of sort of blockchain use cases in the future and in the long term, maybe like 80% or more. But there's always going to be reasons why you might also want to run a monolithic chain. So in Solana's case, one of the benefits of them is that they have, as we said, composability, and they can also have really low latency for use cases that maybe where decentralization doesn't matter as much and you really need composability and low latency. Maybe Solana is a chain you want to build on. There's also use cases like osmosis, where they want to basically prevent MeV by having the validators use threshold encryption. And so what that does is it basically enables all the transactions to be encrypted and only decrypted after they've already been ordered in a block. And so the advantage there is that in order to do that, you need to actually, that needs to happen on the consensus layer.
00:41:17.200 - 00:41:25.924, Speaker C: So you can't outsource that to another blockchain like Celestia. You actually fundamentally have to have your own validator set to do those kind of things.
00:41:26.224 - 00:41:55.322, Speaker B: I see, I see. And just to kind of zoom out a little bit to look at the future of Celestia itself, we've seen a lot of new layer one or layer one infrastructure launch, and really only a handful of them got significant traction and even then, most of them are just copies of what's happening on other chains as well. So I'm very curious, from a non technical perspective, right, from a strategic perspective, how do you see celestial, celestial scaling its community and scaling its developers?
00:41:55.458 - 00:43:11.704, Speaker C: That's a really good question. So the, you know, one of the things that I would say to start is that, you know, once you realize this new modular paradigm, you kind of realize that most of the new layer ones that have come out since Ethereum are really kind of all playing within the same fundamental design space. So there actually hasn't been that much innovation. I mean, there has been a lot, but it's not that fundamental. And so in some sense, all those layer ones are sort of competing along the same axes, whereas Celestia, because it's fundamentally taking a new approach, it has fundamentally different, I would say, benefits and trade offs to any other chain that's come before. So in that sense, we have the privilege of being in a blue ocean where we're the first of our kind. So I think that naturally does give an advantage of essentially in the same way that Ethereum was the first smart contract platform and therefore it was the only game in town for a time, and it sort of built its network off of that.
00:43:11.704 - 00:44:11.904, Speaker C: I think Celestia will have sort of a first mover advantage in that sense within the data availability category. Now, of course, that's not enough. So we also want to partner with existing roll up teams. So we would love for those teams to test out Celestia and deploy a sort of native roll up there. So we're building a settlement layer called sevmos, which we can read about, which enables sort of the roll ups that are built within the typical sort of Ethereum architecture to deploy on celestia natively without making many modifications to their architecture. Another thing is that we want to basically support as many different kinds of execution environments as possible. So obviously we're targeting the EVM and sort of Ethereum developer ecosystem first, because that's where the most activity is.
00:44:11.904 - 00:44:37.972, Speaker C: But in the long term, one of the benefits of Celestia is having this diversity and making it as easy as possible for a developer to rock up and essentially deploy whatever kind of blockchain they want using whatever kind of customized execution environment they want. And I don't think, and I think kind of for a lot of the reasons that we already discussed, Celestial will be the preferred platform for developers to do that.
00:44:38.108 - 00:44:53.024, Speaker B: And zooming out a little bit here, even more so for the next five to ten years, how would you paint the picture for a successful case for Celestia? Like, what does Celestia being successful mean to you? And what does it look like in 510 years?
00:44:53.884 - 00:45:47.422, Speaker C: That's a really good question. I would say. I have this vision in my mind where in five to ten years, there's this. I just had this idea of a website, like a portal, where anyone in the world, even if they're not technical, can go there and essentially click a few buttons and deploy their own blockchain. And so, again, kind of coming back to the AWS example, it's very similar. Like, AWS allows anyone in the world to deploy their own web application with a few keystrokes or a few clicks. And so my vision is for celestia to enable that level of empowerment to anyone in the world, but within the web3 context, not web two.
00:45:47.422 - 00:46:37.090, Speaker C: And why is this important? The first pass, you might say, well, how many people really want to deploy blockchains? And I think to sort of answer that question, you have to think a little bit more broadly about. Again, blockchains are social coordination tools. And the. The number of applications of social coordination is just enormous. Right? Like, social coordination is one of the fundamental things that makes humanity so special, as opposed to other species, is our ability to coordinate at scale. So I think it's very important. And I see blockchains as sort of like this new, this absolutely new paradigm for human beings to self organize.
00:46:37.090 - 00:47:39.396, Speaker C: And so our vision really is that we believe anyone in the world has an inalienable right to self organize without being burdened by the status quo. Meaning that if they want to break free from some kind of government, that's, let's say they want to create their own currency, or they want to create their own bank, or they want to create any kind of institution, or maybe they just want to create like a, I don't know, something for their local community where they can coordinate resources, they should have the freedom and the power to do so. And that's what we want to provide to the world, is this infrastructure for anyone to build what they want to build, whatever kind of alternative system to experiment. It's sort of like the frontier, you know? When people started settling America, they could. They could define their own government, make their own rules. That is a fundamental freedom that we think anyone in the information age has the right to.
00:47:39.540 - 00:47:51.548, Speaker B: That's really exciting, and I can't wait to see how that plays out. So for people who want to keep up to date with what Celestia is doing or keep up to date with what you're doing. What are the best channels for them to do this?
00:47:51.716 - 00:48:09.220, Speaker C: The best place for people to follow our progress is essentially to follow us on twitter. So celestia.org is the twitter handle. Celestia.org is our website. We'd really love for you to join our discord. We have a devnet that is up and running.
00:48:09.220 - 00:48:37.202, Speaker C: So if you want to run a validator or you want to run a sampling light client, you can do that. There's a bunch of people in the community to help you out. And I have a sort of a special challenge for people who are ambitious is to actually run a Celestia sampling light client on your phone, because that, again, is like one of the core visions of what we're trying to achieve. But, yeah, look forward to seeing you guys in the community.
00:48:37.378 - 00:48:40.562, Speaker B: Definitely. Thank you so much for coming on the show, Nick. This has been really fun.
00:48:40.658 - 00:48:41.074, Speaker C: Thanks, Jason.
