00:00:00.090 - 00:00:54.926, Speaker A: Hello, everyone. My name is Annie. I'm the CMR here at Niftify. And every week we're bringing different topics related to the NFT space and different interesting guests to discuss the topics and learn more and share with you different opinions and also discuss with you what you think about those. So for those of you who don't know, niftify a marketplace where you can get a crypto loan against your NFT or provide a loan to others against their nfDs. So we've been around since May 2020, and it's very exciting to see that things are really moving forward pretty fast. We had a record loan against altogether grief last week for 1.42
00:00:54.926 - 00:01:32.940, Speaker A: million, which was super excited. But anyway, please, I don't want to dive too much into this. Please check out our website, niftyfi.com, and also join our discord, which is in our bio, in order to get more information or just come and hang out with our community, which is super cool. So discord niftify.com backslash join so that's it. As a brief introduction, I want also to introduce our guest today.
00:01:32.940 - 00:02:15.382, Speaker A: Joshua Rosenthal is very interesting from the perspective that very few people are actually covering thoroughly both sides of the story, the art history. He's an art historian and also the tech side of the story, which is the technology, the NFTs. And he had two tech startups and two exits up to now. So I'm sure that he's probably the best person to talk to about these two completely different spheres from the first glance, which collide and create something magical at the same time. So, Josh, welcome and thanks a lot for taking the time to talk to us.
00:02:15.516 - 00:02:31.100, Speaker B: Yeah, thanks so much for having me here, Annie, and a pleasure to be here. On a number of fronts, what you've been doing and what Niftyfi does is it's squarely in the space of the things I'm definitely interested in. So it's a great match. And looking forward to.
00:02:34.530 - 00:03:14.394, Speaker A: The topic today is the NFT renaissance and rebirth of art and finance. So obviously everyone here kind of, I think if they are here, they all believe that NFDs have changed a lot in our lives and in art and in finance as well. So I think what probably would be a good idea is kind of start from the very beginning and start comparing the renaissance with today's days, because I know that you have this theory and you've looked into both time frames and you have seen loads of similarities in both. So would you like to start from there, maybe?
00:03:14.592 - 00:03:43.730, Speaker B: Yeah, sure. And we can keep it pretty brief, I'll keep it high level. And if people have questions or want to go in different directions, we can sort of go wherever you would like to go. But in a. Yeah. My background is actually PhD in Fulbright and Institute for Advanced Studies in early modern, late medieval history, which is really renaissance history. And so I spent the better part of ten years digging through archives throughout Europe and looking at a couple of weird things that started surfacing.
00:03:43.730 - 00:04:39.134, Speaker B: And one of the weird things was financial records that use this ledger based account, keeping this double entry bookkeeping. And so that was really interesting. And when that burst on the scene, all of a sudden people had access to capital in ways they didn't before. And most people say it created a whole class of. A class of economic strata, call it protocapitalism, where people weren't indentured in the same way, but could go out and start businesses and fund their own ideas. And then also at the same time, I noticed in these archives, there was the advent of print, and not just printing press like we think of it, in terms of just printing long books and treatises or bibles, but most of the print materials I was finding were these broad sheets, or they're called flukeshiften. It was these single sheets of paper that had huge images on them, these iconic images that were printed from woodcuts or copper etchings.
00:04:39.134 - 00:05:30.374, Speaker B: And they were done by a number of Renaissance artists that were known for their fine oil work, people like Lucas, chronic, the elder, and things like that. But their copper etchings and these images with snappy kind of catchphrases or taglines attached to it, they accounted for over 50% of the printed material early on. Right? So that was what people were reading, and particularly one guy named Martin Luther accounted for over 45% of that material as well. So it wasn't long academic texts. It was this different form of art that was baked into the technology and that was powered, especially the printing, by a new form of financialization. And so, long story short, I had gone on to do a couple of other startups, and we had some exits. And then crypto came on when we were fully vested in 17, and I looked at it and said, holy smokes, this is very similar.
00:05:30.374 - 00:06:50.286, Speaker B: History may not repeat, but it definitely rhymes in the sense of there's another type of ledger based financial technology which gives access to capital in a permissionless way, decentralized, as well as a communication protocol that's likewise decentralized, not just the Internet, but web three, where it really is permissionless and peer to peer. And the last time these two things happened, we had a fundamental reworking of culture, society, politics through communities, socially organizing, and expressing identity and values through this quote, unquote, art. But art was something much more last time, and that gave rise to a rebirth of the world we knew as a renaissance. And so I looked at the same thing happening in 17 and 18 and said, there's all sorts of parallels here. And that's when I went head over heels and down the rabbit hole and strongly do see a similarity in terms of a different type of peer to peer financing and a different type of communication, which would kind of subsume that art and last time people created art to express identity and values. The difference between that last Renaissance and this renaissance is that we have something called the NFT, which is this on chain or digital contract for assets and experiences, either in a synthetic world or in the real world. And at the last renaissance, we didn't have that.
00:06:50.286 - 00:07:13.430, Speaker B: So all the rights were still not permissionless, even though the currency was. And that was a real choke point and kind of hindered the renaissance, or only let it go so far. And so this time, I'm extremely optimistic about using NFTs as a combination of financialization and art, or expression of identity in a permissionless way. So let me stop there. But that's a thesis in a nutshell.
00:07:14.890 - 00:07:54.260, Speaker A: Yeah, it's very interesting, because in the very beginning, before I dived into your theory and everything that you were telling before, I was thinking like, oh, this is cutting edge. This is something that never existed. This is not like anything else. And it's interesting that you found some similarities from the previous times. The impact and the effect of what happened before during the writer films was super impressive, and we got so much out of it. And I feel like. I don't know if you compare those.
00:07:54.260 - 00:08:26.878, Speaker A: When you continued the whole conversation about this Renaissance era, you said that this time it's going to be even more. Things will be happening in both spheres, and it will be way more powerful. There were some issues that kind of hindered the progress during the previous renaissance. Would you like to elaborate about those points?
00:08:27.044 - 00:09:04.218, Speaker B: Yeah, no, that's great. That's something I've been thinking quite a bit about recently. Thanks for the setup. Definitely. So I'm not the first one to kind of come up with the idea that there's a crypto reformation or renaissance that almost naturally occurs to you. After thinking about it for a little bit, the finance people on the defi side, as they draw their gaze further and further back, they go into historical analogues and they become kind of economic macros. And then at some point, they have to get historical just to be able to appreciate the true scope of what's happening.
00:09:04.218 - 00:10:15.214, Speaker B: So they'll do that. And on the art side, people have an idea of renaissance and think about it in terms of kind of cultural and artistic rebirth, and see that happening with nfts. So people have dabbled in it a little bit, but I see it as like really strong, tight technical analogs, meaning that, at least the way I view history, isn't so much means of production and classic Marxism, nor great men of history deciding to do different things. They really see it as communities organizing around with different tools, technological tools, that communicate value and that communicate information or ideas or expression. And so that's very similar to their double based, ledger based bookkeeping is our cryptocurrency, and their printing press is our permissionless print protocol on web three, or NFT, or generative art in that sense. And so what happened last time, as you play the story out, is there was an unraveling of kind of permissioned traditional institutions, and there was an unraveling of kind of medieval hierarchy. It became very decentralized, where communities were able to organize into new forms of economic commerce, new forms of artistic expression.
00:10:15.214 - 00:10:57.098, Speaker B: It wasn't just traditional, medieval, religious, the profane, the common. The ordinary had a meaning and a holiness in its own right. And so they built around that. And so you had a regenesis of all of these institutions around communities. But what happened as you play the story forward over a couple of hundred years, eventually, eventually that ended in some ways, and aggregation struck back. And with the rise of new hegemonies and new aggregated structures, nation state and royalty and monarchy and all that sort of stuff, they really created a monopoly. And the way they did that, or the choke point, the point of leverage at which they used was rights.
00:10:57.098 - 00:11:52.882, Speaker B: So rights, contracts specifically. So contracts for ownership of pieces of art, contracts for ownership of land, contracts for ownership of financial products and accounts, those were in physical space, and those were subject to powers and principalities. So what's really interesting about this renaissance, if you buy into that thesis, is that we have something new, this NFT, or this non fungible token, right? And if you're into art, you're aware of it. And if you're not into art and join it from the defi side or kind of more just traditional space, you might think about it in terms of pictures of pixelated cats or something like that. But at its core, an NFT is a contract that's rights of ownership for these assets and experiences. And they can either be in the real world or in the digital or synthetic world. NFT started as ownership rights for real estate, for example.
00:11:52.882 - 00:12:30.970, Speaker B: And so this is permissionless and decentralized and gives asymmetric advantage to not being controlled. And so now we can actually own our identity as well as our contracts, as well as our currency. And so in my way of thinking, these NFTs are the superset. They do a number of really interesting things, kind of big picture. They bring the real world into crypto. So if you're here, you're interested in crypto, and it's big nowadays, in some sense, maybe it's a trillion, depending upon how you're measuring it. But in the real world sense, global stocks are 200 trillion, global bonds are 200 trillion, global real estate is 100 trillion.
00:12:30.970 - 00:13:40.062, Speaker B: The NFT allows you to port all of those real world assets and rights on chain. And so it's an interesting bridge and much more resilient to centralized powers using it as attack vectors. And then from the artistic side, what's really interesting about it is, in my way of thinking, it serves as this two way door, this bi directional portal that allows you to work in the real world because they're on chain rights for IRL or synthetic assets and experiences. It allows you to work in the real world and enjoy the fruits in a metaverse or a synthetic world, as well as work in the metaverse or synthetic world, and by work that can be play to earn or trading or creating in a creative economy, and enjoy the fruits in a real world. So I'd say the NFTs in this renaissance open up the door much more broadly because they essentially pull everything that's not part of this crypto renaissance into it. And they're attack proof in the sense of ownership, which was the choke point last time. And they make the Renaissance, they expand the worlds of the renaissance by acting as these bi directional doors between real life and between the metaverse.
00:13:40.062 - 00:13:42.820, Speaker B: So let me stop there. That's a lot of stuff to throw at you.
00:13:43.430 - 00:14:27.070, Speaker A: Yeah. No, but it's fascinating. It's very exciting. And we can't wait to see what. It already has changed so many things and brought so much to people's lives, and so it's changed so many lives already. But we're still early, and I can't even wait to see what's coming next. So it's fascinating in terms of when we talk about rebirth of the art, do you think that with the introduction of the NFTs and with just getting rid of the gatekeepers, we ended up being exposed to art that we probably wouldn't see otherwise.
00:14:27.070 - 00:14:46.358, Speaker A: Like, no galleries would accept them otherwise. So we're getting more diverse views and loads of choices and options and kind of. We're not subjected to sort of things that are popular or accepted by the gatekeepers. Like, what's your views on that?
00:14:46.524 - 00:15:15.170, Speaker B: Oh, man, that's such a good question. Yes, that's a really good question. And you always have such good questions. And there's so much to unpack in that, too. Right? So, in some sense, at the last Renaissance, what we view as fine art, what we view as the high point, we think of Michelangelo or Botticelli, and we think these are great works against which we compare other works. But at the time, they were almost low brow or popular. They were profane, they were scandalous.
00:15:15.170 - 00:15:57.726, Speaker B: They would not have been approved through kind of traditional or permissioned channels. So I guess what I'm saying is, if you take a step back and say, hey, what happened at the last Renaissance? A couple of things happened. The financialization, who controlled the money and the economics changed from being a few people who controlled everything to employing this new type of financial technology, which allowed lots of people to participate in it. And then they didn't just showcase their new wealth through art. That's kind of how the narrative typically goes with the know. The Medici made a bunch of money and they decided to buy their way into society. So they hired some famous painters to show fancy things.
00:15:57.726 - 00:16:31.186, Speaker B: That's not really what happened at all. It's actually quite the opposite, that it wasn't just the Medici or a few people that were running the show economically, there's a long tail of participation. And those people, they didn't just try to buy their way into an approved society, they actually changed the values of society. They came up with a pluralistic or an alternative system where at the end of the late Middle Ages, there were certain things that were acceptable from an artistic point of view, and certain things that were not. And what was acceptable was kind of a traditional approach. Art was flat, it was symbolic, it was two dimensional, if you will. It was representative or iconic, almost.
00:16:31.186 - 00:17:32.090, Speaker B: And the subject matter, you could have some folk images and this and that. But generally it was religious. There was an approved domain or sphere of what was appropriate to have serious artistic expression for. So the Medici and all of the other people that came along in the long tail when they started introducing either what we would see as highbrow art today, or even the more popular versions of it, where we see with Luther and Kronok and these woodcuts doing all sorts of crazy and profane things, they introduced things that weren't religious, they introduced the common, the everyday life, and that never would have been allowed in an artistic domain through a permissioned kind of artistic dissemination infrastructure. But with a renaissance, it was quote unquote, allowed, partially because the means of dissemination, one, were through print, and two, because of this ledger based, this financialization, this new fintech, everyone could participate in it. So they changed what was acceptable versus what wasn't acceptable at the Renaissance. And so that's essentially what we see happening here as well.
00:17:32.090 - 00:18:22.298, Speaker B: These permission channels, which would be centralized, controlled, they might be galleries or what have you. There are certain things that are acceptable and certain things that aren't acceptable. And with a new technology, because it's not just a better technology, specifically a decentralized technology, which gives participation to everyone along the long tail of distribution curve, that allows all sorts of different art to pop up and for us to get access to it in ways we wouldn't have thought about before and at the last Renaissance. And this happens every time the pendulum of history swings from aggregation to disaggregation. The new cultures and the new communities are free to express themselves and to create different values and perspectives, and to interpret that and apply that through art. And that new art always looks weird. It looks od, it looks different than what the permission gatekeepers would have chosen.
00:18:22.298 - 00:18:59.058, Speaker B: And part of that is because the values are changing. And part of that is because that new art tends to use the new technology. In other words, we often see art, at least in art history. You hear about it, there's art, and then there's finance, and never the tween shall meet. But actually, what happened, from a historical point of view, is art always was a financial event. And it wasn't just a financial event in terms of who pays for it, how it expresses power, status or interpretation. It was a financial event in that the financial technology, as well as the communication technology, actually was used by artists to explore different ways of communicating.
00:18:59.058 - 00:19:34.178, Speaker B: So the tech was baked into the art, and that was one of the other reasons why it seemed very od to the powerholders and people who weren't participating in that. So that's what we saw at the last Renaissance. The things that they were doing, the three dimensional, the aR, the VR, their version of generative art, looked very od against traditional permission expectations. And it was only created, we only had the economic infrastructure to create that expression, which was new and weird and different. And as history swings, that became the pinnacle against which we measure things by. And today we're seeing the exact same thing. Right.
00:19:34.178 - 00:20:07.934, Speaker B: The crypto economics defi, in particular, allows a broader participation in expressing this art. The art we're expressing is a different identity, both in domain, in terms of specific values we're creating. And it uses the technology, or it's baked in the generative art, or doing it on chain, doing it as an NFT. And so that looks very weird to traditional kind of galleries or what have you. And then as that continues to unwind, eventually the traditional power brokers hop on, almost because they have no choice, which is what we're seeing with. We're seeing today, as you know.
00:20:07.972 - 00:20:08.222, Speaker C: Well.
00:20:08.276 - 00:20:11.920, Speaker B: So hopefully that's a good answer to your question, but yes and yes.
00:20:13.090 - 00:20:33.942, Speaker A: Yeah, very interesting. And, yeah, I agree. For many people, generative art or anything that is kind of outside their comfort zone, what they are used to seeing and accepting as art, it looks weird to them. We have so many conversations with people arguing whether it's art at all or not.
00:20:33.996 - 00:20:34.600, Speaker B: Right.
00:20:35.530 - 00:20:48.410, Speaker A: Whether it's art or not. And also all these arguments about jpegs. Right? Click, save things. And whether it has value or not, from both perspectives.
00:20:51.710 - 00:21:30.066, Speaker B: Yeah, it's such a good. As long as you're bringing that up, if you don't mind, if you really want to delve into what happened at the last Renaissance. Traditionally, paintings were something that took a long time, and a patron would commission, they would dictate what would be created, and then they'd hire, in a transactional event, they'd hire someone to create that for them. That would take a long time, and it had value because time and expertise were baked into it. Right. And so with the Renaissance, we can think of oil paintings and frescoes, but the bulk of the art, from a numeric and financial perspective, was actually created through this printing press. Right? It was through wood etchings.
00:21:30.066 - 00:22:07.414, Speaker B: You're carving out a piece and then you're inking it and you're putting it on paper or through woodcuts or through copper etchings. And so in that sense, at the time, during the Renaissance and reformation, there was a lot of the same arguments. There was a lot of people saying, hey, this new printed art, the colored woodcuts or copper etchings, the fluke drift I'm talking about, it wasn't valuable because it didn't take forever. It was almost there. Putting it on a woodcut and hitting it with an ink stamp was their version of right click saving. Right. And so at the advent of that artistic change, there were a number of critics who said, this is meaningless because anybody can do it.
00:22:07.414 - 00:23:14.890, Speaker B: Anyone can create a bunch of these at time. And as we know, that was the wrong side of history from not just a value argument, but even from what the art historians would say. And so I think you're getting to the heart of it with that. Is art just important because it takes time and it has a few people who are experts, or is there meaning inherent to the nature of expression? And some people would argue, and I guess I'd be one of them, that during these periods where we go from hierarchy to decentralization, where different priorities and values of what's important, what should be important, how do we relate to that when all of that is in play and the cards are reshuffled? It's at that precise moment that artists are more important, not less important. And just from a historical perspective, I think it's the community of artists that play that role. They become much more important. And what you tend to see, and you've seen this all throughout art history, is that, yeah, you have masters who are acknowledged in their time, but you also have some of the most meaningful and significant expressions of art coming from places that you wouldn't have predicted or wouldn't have otherwise looked.
00:23:14.890 - 00:23:39.406, Speaker B: And so having a decentralized approach with technology that allows that is beneficial not only to the artistic endeavor, but to community and culture as a whole, which is why I think we have not just an artistic renaissance, but the renaissance of the time was defined and created by art, but certainly exceeded those boundaries to encompass all culture and society. So, yeah, I think what you're saying is really important on a number of levels.
00:23:39.598 - 00:24:20.480, Speaker A: It's interesting. You touched on a point that I would like to dive into. You mentioned, like, a role and how important the role is. And in this ecosystem, we have so many different kind of groups of participants, which are kind of related both to art and to finance. And we also have the developers and the coders. So there are many different groups of people with different interests and different skill sets that are participating in this whole ecosystem. How do you imagine this? Obviously, they all kind of overlap, and they all collaborate, and there are lots of things that are happening together at the same time.
00:24:20.480 - 00:24:37.442, Speaker A: But how do you see what are the main roles? What roles do they play in this rebirth and kind of the impact and the effect they're having on the rebirth of art and finance at the moment in the NFT space.
00:24:37.576 - 00:25:13.706, Speaker B: Oh, man, that's such a good question. So let me take that in a few different lines. That's such a good question. So just to take a step back and start kind of as a good historian, we'd say during the Middle Ages, art was top down, right? It was directional. The patron dictated what should be created, and they defined it. And the artist essentially fulfilled an order, like they were working at a fast food joint, creating what was ordered off a menu. And so at the Renaissance, what happened, when I say decentralized, both the finance became decentralized, and the communication, the technological expression for art, also likewise became decentralized.
00:25:13.706 - 00:25:56.398, Speaker B: That basically changed that model. Where it was patron that dictated and artist that fulfilled it, became much more fluid and the boundaries much more porous or permeable. And so the artistic ecosystem, the rebirth of art at the last Renaissance, just as at this renaissance, was much more fluid and dynamic and symbiotic. And so it wasn't just people dictating orders, it was artists themselves that were able to create and then commercialize it or financialize their creation through this new technology. And so the locus of power began to shift. And then, within that decentralization, the image here isn't the cathedral, but it's the bazaar, with different people playing different roles in a marketplace, if you will. Different people participated in artistic creation in different ways.
00:25:56.398 - 00:27:00.334, Speaker B: And so they might have been co creators in terms of co commissioning through a guild or a group of people. We'd call that a dow today. Or they might have actually been co creators in terms of someone sketching, and then someone taking that sketching and translating it to copper plate or woodcut rendering. That would be like us taking 2d sketches and rendering them on unity, or unreal in a 3d metaverse engine or something along those lines. So there are layers of this artistic creation, as well as evangelists and people that pulled together funds to fund it, and even disseminators. And as part of that, the nature of the relationship between artist and audience wasn't just transactional in the sense of the Middle Ages, where it was a patron making an order and an artist fulfilling it, but it became personal or relational, where these projects took on lives of their own and also extended over time in a series, partially because the artist was able to not just create an identity for themselves, but control the economic underpinnings for their own identity. And so, in that sense, it was just a much more fluid ecosystem.
00:27:00.334 - 00:28:12.994, Speaker B: And we have the same thing happening today, too. Anytime decentralized technologies allow us to have broad based financial interaction and broad based artistic interaction that allows artists to not be subject to middlemen or whether they're galleries or specific patrons taking orders, but to be able to create an interactive relationship with audience and community again, like at the renaissance, through specific types of new technology. And so I think the analogues today are whether it's generative, for instance. And so I, as a collector, a patron, I'm able to mint this NFT, and it has unique characters and aspirate. That puts me on chain in terms of providence. That makes me part of the story, and I get to play part of the co creation or to be able to sponsor, if you move into kind of social tokens or different things like that, where I'm able to find an artist and have a much more meaningful relationship going back and forth with them. And then likewise, for the artist to be able to, and that's new for the rebirth of art, for the artist to not just be fulfilling orders or to be creating something and hoping that it works, but to be able to do that in the midst of connection to community, it creates a really different dynamic.
00:28:12.994 - 00:28:43.326, Speaker B: And so that's on the art side, on the finance side. So I'm going to take a step back and ask artists to plug their ears. Or maybe artists should actually listen to this just so you can understand it really well from a finance side, if I'm just your typical finance person, or I'm your know, say I'm interested in just know, accumulating wealth, and I really don't care about anything. Well, what are my choices? Well, in the old world, I'd invest in stock, and stock's not that interesting. Maybe it's ge or coke. All right, I can do something a little cooler. Maybe it's Tesla or GameStop.
00:28:43.326 - 00:29:32.574, Speaker B: Okay, I can kind of do that in a community sense with GameStop or AMC on robinhood. But really, at some point, it occurs to me, especially with antex as of late, that I actually don't own that stock. What I actually have is an IOU for a piece of stock that Gamestop owns. Right? And so as I get into crypto, it gets interesting because I can actually own my own assets for real. That's much more interesting for me. But what am I going to do as I'm trading, not just for a day job, but as it almost becomes entertainment, I can own eth or bitcoin, or maybe I look at some of these other altcoins, and they have interesting projects and they become memes. But what's really interesting is nfts literally allow me to financialize my economics around this esoteric creation or art or knowledge.
00:29:32.574 - 00:30:18.990, Speaker B: And so from the artistic point of view, it provides the economic superstructure to make a living doing what you like. But from the investment point of view, it allows me not only diversification in terms of portfolio, but if I don't really own my stock anyway, I might as well do something which I might as well trade or invest in something that I like, because not only can I get the same returns, but it's much more entertaining for me. And that may ultimately be an on ramp or a bridge to finding things that I do like, where I find meaning and expression through art. So from the financial community, NFTs are the great superset that allow me to own something that's meaningful to me but still enjoy the economic fruits and rewards rather than an IOU for a piece of stock that I'm not interested in. So that's where the ven diagram sort of overlaps, if that's helpful.
00:30:19.330 - 00:31:10.062, Speaker A: Yeah, no, it is helpful, and it does overlap. So it's very interesting to see how it goes just to reset the room and make a post, just because we had many people join us while you were talking. So if someone is just coming in right now, this is niftify's Twitter spaces. We're talking to Joshua about the NFT renaissance and rebirth of art and finance. For those of you who don't know what Niftyfi is, Niftify is a marketplace where you can get crypto loan on your NFT or offer loans to others against their nfts. So you can check it out@niftify.com and also follow us on Twitter and join our discord, which is the link of it is in the bio.
00:31:10.062 - 00:31:49.280, Speaker A: We have an awesome community and we would love to help you there and answer any questions that you would have about the platform. Okay. Yeah. So very interesting in terms of, I guess, yeah, we covered all kind of, we covered a lot already. Let's try to understand. It's interesting thing that I've noticed recently, and it's kind of related to the finance side of the NFTs that you covered. Just in the last question there.
00:31:49.280 - 00:32:19.820, Speaker A: I have noticed a little bit of kind of separation between the people who actually truly believe in Defi and people who believe in nfts. And it feels like they have a feeling that it's two separate things and everyone wants to defend their side of the story. Have you noticed anything similar to that? And why do you think that is? Because to me, they don't look like two opposite or two very different things, right? In that sense.
00:32:23.310 - 00:32:44.830, Speaker B: Also good for you, Annie, too. That's the enlightened approach to it. So, yes, I have noticed it. And this always sort of happens as this kind of thesis plays out. So let me take it from kind of both sides. And so just to say this, this is nothing different than you're seeing it as crypto has moved. So let me start from the beginning.
00:32:44.830 - 00:33:38.530, Speaker B: Anytime you have these sort of historical transitions where you're using decentralized economics technology, as well as decentralized communication or ability to disseminate art, image meaning technologies, you have this unraveling of old worlds and traditional hierarchies. And so all the cards are reshuffled and everything's in play. And what tends to happen is you tend to have this kind of tribalism develop, or this maximalism, this teleology, or the pathway works. It starts with finance because that's the purest play expression with the most value. And so the technology is applied there, and then it moves into kind of social and economic organizations, that'd be companies or dows, and then it moves into identity and expression and kind of wrapping it. And so that'd be art or nfts. And then it eventually moves into the real world, where crypto, where these things act as economic batteries for people who aren't interested in the technology at all.
00:33:38.530 - 00:34:29.486, Speaker B: But while we're in each one of these phases, there's a type of tribalism or a kind of maximalism that breaks out. And part of that is because the old hierarchy is trashed. And so people, I don't want to assign any groups attributes, but there are certain people who definitely, they're, like, feeling the edges or the boundaries of this. They're trying to figure out what's meaningful and where the lines are. And so when this happened in finance, you had a tremendous amount of when crypto finance went mainstream, you had a tremendous amount of this kind of political scientists call it cleavage, this breaking apart into kind of parallel identities between DeFI and CFI, right? And so that was decentralized finance, but CFI is centralized finance. So this would be advent institutions, Coinbase, all that sort of stuff. And then in Defi, as Defi became more and more mainstream and had more and more adherence, then you had a kind of a tribalism or maximalism breakout.
00:34:29.486 - 00:35:36.710, Speaker B: And so it tended to be around chains and layer one. Is this bitcoin? Is this ether? Is this kind of alt stuff coming up? Like, know again, from my perspective, it's kind of ridiculous in the sense of the denominator is so small, there's room for everyone to be successful. And I take a very pluralistic approach in a polychain world, but part of it is people are ascribing their identity to those particular sections and they're making investments there. And so now, as NFTs kind of grow up and they become part of this narrative and this next stage of development, especially where it's tied to finance, which is great, as we talked about, now the artists can get paid for the value they create, and now the financial people can participate in something more meaningful than just stocks and Ge or Tesla. But it does mean that as more capital comes in and more people and the rules are up in the air, people start trying to create identity and feeling out. And so you have this tribalism pop out. And so that's definitely, I think, what you're seeing, the defi side using it as assets and speculation, and the artists using it, or the NFT people using it in meaningful ways.
00:35:36.710 - 00:36:41.414, Speaker B: And the way that breaks out in terms of tribalism is which is better, which project is better, and also which approach is better? Is it buying and storing on fundamentals and supporting artists that you find meaningful? Is it technical trading or trying to front run? And then you have kind of the whales and social coordination, things going on with that. Just taking a step back from all of it, though I'd say historically, this is sort of expected. It seems like it's degenerating, but it's just sort of the dip you have to go through as you get mainstream adoption. And from a big picture. If you really believe this historical thesis, if you believe that nfts are actually the superset, right? Just as the Internet becomes web three, and not only finance, but economic organization, participation becomes crypto, nfts will actually become all of crypto. And what I mean by that is your ownership for a contract is the superset that supersedes currency. How you spend to get assets and experiences on that contract, that supersedes identity.
00:36:41.414 - 00:37:46.106, Speaker B: What you express around that, in terms of the ownership that's staked to create the identity formation. And so I'd say big picture, nfts are the superset. This is just kind of little ripples on the surface. The current will continue to push nfts towards dominance, but it'll change what we mean by nfts. When we say nfts today, most people think about on chain rights to an image. Those NFTs will actually get broader, kind of going back to how they were created in terms of that real life versus metaverse thing I was talking about. There'll be contracts or assets and experiences both in synthetic worlds and in real life, covering both, which, from an artistic, historical point of view, that's actually really good news for the artist, because that allows you to create across different types of media, to really embrace the technology, to create different things, meaning nfts that cover a digital asset and a physical experience, or a physical asset and a digital experience and all sorts of things like that, unlocking doors to nfts that allow assets and experiences across these worlds.
00:37:46.106 - 00:37:59.480, Speaker B: So I think we haven't yet seen that, but that's what I would say will happen next. So, yes, I've noticed it. It's kind of what happens. Big picture, it doesn't really matter, and even bigger picture, it actually unlocks these doors for artists to do more interesting things.
00:38:00.490 - 00:38:27.050, Speaker A: Nice. Thank you. Yeah. So I guess what I'll do is I'll just ask the audience, if they have any questions, would like to jump in and discuss with you some topics. So I'll bring someone up, and then if everyone else wants to jump on stage, just send me a request and I'll make sure you get there. Hello, Andy.
00:38:27.210 - 00:38:41.620, Speaker C: Hey, how's it going, everyone? Josh, if you remember, I wrote that medium blog post talking about kind of basically extrapolating off of what you and the bankless guys.
00:38:42.070 - 00:38:43.586, Speaker A: Yeah, absolutely.
00:38:43.688 - 00:38:44.994, Speaker B: That's great. Good to hear from you.
00:38:45.032 - 00:39:34.820, Speaker C: Yeah, nice to have a chat, a public chat. And then I also see Nathaniel Mendoz is in here from Greenwood, so. Hi to. So I don't know if I'm going to be able to redo it as eloquently as I did the first time, but I'm kind of pinging for Josh's opinion on the blend between. He talks about the blend between crypto and nfTs, kind of being the blend between art and finance, which I agree with. But then I love the idea of adding to this mix, and perhaps even at a larger scale, replacing nfts but with video games, because I think video games appeal to the human heart, the condition, all that stuff, the fun narrative. They get sucked in, get inspired hunting, farming, whatever, do whatever you want.
00:39:34.820 - 00:40:07.358, Speaker C: It's an expression of art because there's lots of artists working in video games as well. And then with tokenizing items in video games, which, by the way, casual plug, that's what I do for a living. Work for Stardust. We tokenize video games when you tokenize the items in the video game. Right. Runescape now you can swap raw chicken for Runescape gold on a uniswap curve, but that raw chicken actually has real world value because everything's tokenized, right? Whatever that value is, zero. There's some value to it.
00:40:07.358 - 00:40:17.250, Speaker C: But you can bring in the actual finance side of this into the video game now. So he was just about to launch into his response on his thoughts on this?
00:40:17.320 - 00:40:49.974, Speaker B: Yes, it's a really good question. It's deceptively simple. So I think NFTs are going to be, this sounds crazy, and I realize this sounds completely insane, but I'm going to say I think NFTs are actually going to be the superset that defines crypto. Just like when historians look back 100 years from now, they're not going to remember the Internet as we know it today. They're only going to think of crypto. They're going to think of web three. They're going to think of a peer to peer permissionless protocol like this weird kind of half baked Internet that we have was just like a blip on the radar.
00:40:49.974 - 00:41:22.598, Speaker B: And the same thing with crypto. I actually think NFT, when they say crypto, they're going to mean what we mean by NFTs today, that they're going to be these contracts that cover assets and experiences rights for things in the real world as well as anything digital. And so by that I mean right now we think about it in terms of images and rights for those, and those are financialized. That's where we are today. But I actually think these categories are going to kind of become meaningless as we go forward. So the first half step will be into video games. Absolutely, for sure.
00:41:22.598 - 00:42:29.386, Speaker B: But those will be like NFT driven basically. Whether they're assets that have utility or whether they're rights for access, or whether it's identity around that, or whether it's people just at least here in the know kind know being able to circumvent SEC and using an NFT to get out of it being a security, that these rights are actually going to subsume whatever form of expression like it takes, whether it's kind of traditional digital art as we think about it today, whether it's currency or rights for currency into futures or whether it's any sort of experience online, that video games or metaverse would be like one of the purest play examples of that. And then just to get really specific about it, I think it won't just be artifacts or attributes that you'll be able to take. But assuming you can do that on a protocol that extends across video game instances. Or it might be kind of built to a protocol like loot was playing around with on ether. It might be something like the Wilder guys are doing with zero IO, where you have kind of protocols going across these universes that will open up not just financialization of these assets, but financialization of the assets to be able to take them from place to place. But where it gets really interesting is where the categories stop meaning things.
00:42:29.386 - 00:43:00.134, Speaker B: And the nomenclature kind of breaks down. I'm partial to Wilder because I like Frank Wilder quite a bit and know him, and I'm a big fan of what he does. But what's interesting about that is there you have guilds of 2d artists doing sketch work, and then they'rendered into a dow where they're financially compensated. And then you have unreal or unity artists, people rendering that into it. At that point, there is no. And it's all yield generated as well. So in that sense, DFI becomes NFT becomes a video game becomes 2d.
00:43:00.134 - 00:43:26.206, Speaker B: Art becomes technical development. It's all quote unquote within a video game. But at that point, the nomenclature, you can call it whatever you want to. It's communities organizing, creating art, creating economics, and creating this kind of immersive experience. So absolutely, I agree with that. And the only thing I'd add to that is I actually think over time, that's going to extend out beyond a video game, beyond a metaverse, into the real world as well. That's where I think NFTs are really interesting.
00:43:26.206 - 00:44:00.210, Speaker B: Like imagine if you have an NFT that's a sword of what have you, that you can take from world to world, or a car of what have you, that you can take from world to world. That also functions as a title to a real car in real life. That's the next stage of that. And NFTs allow you to do all of those things, bridge from a video game or synthetic world or metaverse into the real world as well. So I guess it's kind of a nomenclature game. But not only do I agree with that, I think the categories will sort of become meaningless as this blends together. And that's like what you saw at the last renaissance too, where I was talking about this fluidity in terms of creation expression.
00:44:00.210 - 00:44:03.180, Speaker B: I don't know if that makes sense or if that's helpful, but that's at least my.
00:44:04.430 - 00:44:10.874, Speaker C: It also aligns a lot with what I'm seeing with people building as well in the space, going after that type of stuff.
00:44:11.072 - 00:44:43.142, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's why it's such a weird thing. When people are asked to express, what do you mean by metaverse? Or what have you? They're having a tough time with it because it's just like what we mean by Internet today. It's like the thing where you've experienced throughout our lifetime is not what will be in the future. And when that thing arrives, it's not going to be with a bang. It's going to be so slowly and imperceptibly, we're going to look back and say, oh, yeah, that was really the Internet the whole time. Oh, yeah, that was really the metaverse the whole time. And so if you want to call it a video game or digital art or call it a dow, none of those things will be wrong.
00:44:43.142 - 00:44:47.254, Speaker B: They'll all be correct, depending upon what perspective you're viewing it from at that point in time.
00:44:47.452 - 00:44:48.390, Speaker C: Totally.
00:44:49.050 - 00:44:56.060, Speaker B: That's a really good question, though. No, yeah. Thanks for. Thanks for asking and for finding this and for taking time out of what's going on in New York, too.
00:44:56.750 - 00:44:58.940, Speaker C: Yep, happy to do it.
00:45:02.370 - 00:45:05.760, Speaker A: Okay, let's see. Charlie, welcome.
00:45:09.490 - 00:45:47.980, Speaker D: Yeah, thanks for taking the question and the time and getting this back on track. Appreciate that. I've got a quick question about your thoughts on resistance from, let's say, the centralized cathedral, the old school. There's a lot of really interesting things. Even tomorrow there's a vote. There's some hidden, really nefarious attacks against Defi in this bill from the IRS. What are the trajectories and perhaps what can we predict from the past as far as the attack vectors against this?
00:45:49.790 - 00:46:16.226, Speaker B: Annie, these communities you put together are always so good. I think these are the most significant questions of our time, or at least they're the ones I'm thinking of. So thank you for asking that question. Yeah. And that bill, that's a great example. Okay, so just to start out, there's definitely, people have made money in crypto. The funds are putting money to work in the form of lobbyists and what have you.
00:46:16.226 - 00:46:39.882, Speaker B: There's a wave coming in 22 where everybody is arming up to engage in this battle. A lot of it, the most immediate. You can think of it as like an ocean, right? Where there's these currents, deep ocean currents, and then there's these tides and then there's these little ripples, the ripples at the top. That's the thing that affects you the most immediately. And so I don't want to downplay it, but that's like that bill, right? Completely know. Ridiculous. Trevinsky has some thoughts on it.
00:46:39.882 - 00:47:08.738, Speaker B: Really good. If you're following that sort of thing. And that's like at the regulation layer. And then so there's going to be war and exchange going back and forth around that. And where the crypto folks, the CFI folks, some of the Defi folks will be sending in armies of lobbyists to interact on that. And obviously Celkus has different people, have different points of view on how to impact that by single issue voting and doing scoring cards and blah, blah, blah, blah. That's all kind of at the top, the regulatory piece of it.
00:47:08.738 - 00:47:55.694, Speaker B: Below that in the current, is this political piece of it, which gets pretty interesting. And that's where a lot of the vectors of conflict are going to be around that. Some of the scorecarding, the single issue voting, the idea of kind of meta parties sitting on top of it, some of the things yang and company are talking about, we don't care what party you're affiliated, if you're pro crypto, you have our support. Blah, blah, blah and changing some of those protocols. But deeper below that, which is kind of like where I like to start. What's the overarching, the jet stream or the deep ocean current? This is going to sound crazy, so at least suspend your disbelief for a second. So I actually think the real deep conflict isn't around regulation, it's not around politics.
00:47:55.694 - 00:48:35.070, Speaker B: It's actually around this identity. And the identity conflict is going to supersede. It's going to determine the political outcome as well as the regulatory outcome. And what I mean by that is, and again, I realize this sounds crazy, but if you believe some of the better historians, and particularly the political theorists, they see a nation state as an imagined community. There's a seminal book by Benedict Anderson, who was icon in the political science field, and he literally called it imagined communities. And he said, hey, a know in the Renaissance, there was no state, there was no nation state, right? Maybe there's a kingdom, but you really didn't think about that. Maybe there was a principality, but you really didn't think about that.
00:48:35.070 - 00:49:02.886, Speaker B: You were part of a community. And yeah, the community had a geography, but it never would have occurred to you be an english person or a french person or a German. It just wouldn't have entered your head. That category didn't exist. That category was created after the Renaissance. So in history, Renaissance and reformation unwound medieval hierarchy and the Holy Roman Empire. And then after a couple hundred years, aggregation struck back mostly through contract and property rights, because they weren't decentralized on chain like we have with nfts.
00:49:02.886 - 00:49:29.838, Speaker B: Today, they struck back and reaggregated, and they reaggated in the form of a nation state. And they introduced the concept. They said, hey, you didn't know it, but you're actually a frenchman. You're actually a German. Surprise. There you go. And along with that, that became the center part of your identity in terms of how you perceived yourself, what was most important to you and to what group you belonged, more so than your local geography, than your family, than your town, than your trade or your vocation.
00:49:29.838 - 00:50:03.338, Speaker B: And so that's a political, imagined community kind of narrative. And the way that those nation states were created, they're instantiated around two factors. One was around currency. They were joined because they had a currency, and two, because the currency also was protected by these rights for contracts that I was talking about. So that's the historical analog. Now, if you take a step back and say, what is crypto doing? Well, crypto is a currency, sure, but it also has these contracts and rights. They're called nfts, and on chain.
00:50:03.338 - 00:50:46.214, Speaker B: And around that, there's actually identity formed on top of that. Meaning, essentially, crypto is a next generation or a replacement to a nation state, which sounds crazy, but I think some of the better political theorists in traditional nation states are very well aware of this. And so the conflict between the nation state and crypto isn't around financial regulation. It's really around crypto, if it succeeds, is going to become a new type of nation state or a replacement to the nation state. So it really gets at the core of what the nation is doing and how they're doing that. And just to give you a couple of specific examples, in the west, particularly here in the states, the one chink in the armor around that was around vocation. At some point, it became less important to be american as it was to be doing your vocation.
00:50:46.214 - 00:51:02.154, Speaker B: Like, what do you do? I'm a finance guy. I'm an artist, blah, blah. But in crypto, that gets subsumed by, I'm not just a finance guy. I do defi. I'm not just an know. She does generative art or what have you. And so that vocation actually becomes a primary locus of identity.
00:51:02.154 - 00:51:28.886, Speaker B: And so in that fight where you're fighting for what a nation does, currency is a function of that, and contract is a function of that, for sure. Banking. But it really is around what group do you primarily belong to? And your group determines what money you use. Your group determines how you enforce contracts, and your group determines essentially how you organize to achieve your games. Which is, at its heart, political. And so all that's to say around these vectors, I think the fight is much bigger than we think it is today. We're seeing the little ripples on top.
00:51:28.886 - 00:52:05.382, Speaker B: It's really around identity. And how that plays out politically is, I kind of think, again, I may be biased by my own thesis, but I think it plays out very similar to how it did last time, where it introduced a new axis on the political grid. It introduced a new dimension. Call it single issue voting, if you will. And so for us today, you can do a two x two consulting grid, where you have economics and you have social issues and you have conservative liberal on each of them. And that sort of works. Most people economically conservative are probably socially conservative, but it sort of doesn't work because there's a lot of people who are austrian economics but who are socially liberal or whatever.
00:52:05.382 - 00:52:31.446, Speaker B: Right? And so crypto, that's like your xy coordinates. Crypto is interesting, and that's a single issue where it creates a new dimension. It creates a z axis. It turns your two by two square into a grid. And all of a sudden, if that becomes the locus of your identity and it's primarily important, then you have, like, a weird convergence of enemy of my enemy as my friends. You'll have people like Ted Cruz, Andrew Yang, like, agreeing on stuff. Right? Or you'll have people saying, hey, I'm kind of crypto libertarian.
00:52:31.446 - 00:53:24.574, Speaker B: I'm anarchist libertarian. I'm classically, you know, technocrat, but I go with crypto first before any of these other issues. And so that z axis will take priority. And so we'll probably get hit on the regulatory stuff probably fairly quickly, because we can't organize around that quickly enough unless, and this is where the DeFI guys should really love the CFI and traditional VC funds, because they're the ones funding the lobbyists and sending them in to do that. If we can stop that, then it becomes political. And on that political side, the locus of interaction becomes around that z axis, turning the square into a cube for that single issue. But fundamentally and ultimately, how it plays out is, does crypto actually become like a layer on top or below as a protocol, depending upon how you're thinking about for the nation state? And that's one of the reasons why you see all this energy charged up around bellaging cities, around what Citidao is doing in Wyoming, around these other things.
00:53:24.574 - 00:54:02.902, Speaker B: You can still say, the next question would be like, hey, Josh, that's great. Maybe it makes sense, but people in meat stay still. Control armies and they're still able to excise taxes? I'd say, yeah, for sure. That's what happened at the last Renaissance. There's one dominant form of power hierarchy. And then with a renaissance and reformation, there were different options available, and that kind of split the power layout in the medieval world, right? So all of a sudden, certain monarchies were fighting against other monarchies, and certain patronage alliances within a monarchy were fighting against another patronage alliance within a monarchy, and enemies of enemies became friends in really weird ways. And so there was always slippage.
00:54:02.902 - 00:54:38.030, Speaker B: So even during these crazy conflicts, like my real expertise on wars of religion as that post Renaissance period, it wasn't as bad as it sounded. There wasn't a lot of military bloodshed, comparatively speaking. Because if you're a state and you have to use force on your own people, you've already lost the battle. Long term, that's not great. You get like a d on your report card if you have to threaten them. You get a c on your report card if you don't have to threaten them, but just implicitly can threaten them through hegemony or kind of power or language, then you get a b. And if you dominate their mental horizons so effectively that the idea of dissent never enters their head, then you get an a.
00:54:38.030 - 00:55:00.922, Speaker B: And so that's the war. You're actually playing that hegemonic landscape against identity. And that's where nfts are like a very powerful tool on the battlefield. So from the historical perspective, those places will ebb and flow. It won't come quickly, it'll be slowly. Some people will be trapped, other people will be able to leave. And through kind of a game care theory concept, there'll always be real nation states in real space that raise their hand.
00:55:00.922 - 00:55:26.946, Speaker B: The difference is they won't join to be pro el Salvador, Bolivia, over everything. They'll join to say, hey, I'm part of team crypto, or team bitcoin, or pick your chain. And that identity will actually trump the nation state. So short term, yeah, there's going to be friction. Hopefully the CFI guys and VCFI guys can put the lobbyists in there. Middle term, you'll have political z access, single issue, which will get really interesting. And then longer term, you'll have this replacement of state.
00:55:26.946 - 00:56:29.590, Speaker B: And the other weapon, I think besides NFTs is this identity weapon. The other weapon is really around education, which sounds crazy, but it's true. Like, can we actually say crypto isn't just trading coins or even creating art, but crypto is the stake, not the sizzle, the benefits of having a full stomach, the idea of saying no, yes, crypto is all these things, but it has these positive benefits for individuals and societies, people, small businesses, et cetera, et cetera. And so that's what I mean by crypto, entering this third phase of the teleology or of the pathway and benefiting people in real life. Just like, as a little example, helium is this box, this IoT protocol, and we ran a $500 box and turned a drug den in Louisville, Kentucky, into a historic building renovation for a $500 investment or hiring people to do stuff to that end. That's the narrative that will help impact crypto as we move from finance, from finance to art, and then into impacting things in real life. So it's like a long answer, but that's a super important question.
00:56:29.590 - 00:56:33.980, Speaker B: Like, probably the most important question, at least, that I'm thinking about right now.
00:56:34.830 - 00:56:54.266, Speaker C: Can you continue this a little bit, just one step further? In the idea where nation states have the monopoly on violence, essentially, right? That's physical, that's real world. Do you see these crypto led communities that trump the nation state into becoming a physical mass, not just an idea, not just value shift in the virtual.
00:56:54.458 - 00:57:46.526, Speaker B: Yeah, no, I think they absolutely do. So I think that's what I was saying. So, one, I'm not saying you're going to have an army of bitcoiners armed with AR 15s, although if you look at what's the conference down in Miami coming up, it's like bitcoin and guns or something like that. There definitely is that wing of the contingency for. But, like, fundamentally, I think it's going to be a layer on top, or it's like a virus that interacts at the nation state level, at the meet space level, and realigns their identity onto different teams. So it's not going to be as if you have the Republic of Ethereum set up and they're competing in South America. Sure, you'll have some people doing that, but you'll have nation states adopting into the protocol, and those nation states will occupy real physical space, and those nation states will have means and recourse to violence and physical force as well.
00:57:46.526 - 00:58:24.862, Speaker B: So the way to think about it, let me explain it this way, maybe one better way to think about it, man. As long as you're asking the question, I'm going to answer it. So buckle up. So it's not as if you're going to have the kingdom of bitcoin, which is running guns branded with bees, right? You're going to have people, like, joining that party, and those people are actually going to be forming communities and be sitting within an asian state. And so the best analog, if you're an american you can think about is like post Breton woods. Right? So when we use the words in English, first world, second world, third world, what we actually mean by that is for the last 50 years, the world was divided up into two camps. There was us, there was them, there was capitalism, first world.
00:58:24.862 - 00:59:20.110, Speaker B: There was communism, second world. And then there was all the undecided third world that became the x and Y coordinates on the ecosystem there. And so communism didn't have a country and it wasn't branded with guns, but there are countries that adopted that ideological, technological, and economic system that participated, and at capitalism, same way. So those countries operated within those systems. So I think post Bretton woods, when we say maybe that's not really in our interest anymore and we're stepping back administration after administration, I actually think it's going to be crypto versus non crypto is going to replace capitalism versus communism. Or maybe better said, not crypto versus non crypto, but what type of crypto you want? Meaning do you want decentralized crypto, which has CFI but also deFi, which has know tokens but not centralized digital currency? Or do you want state based blockchain, which is what you're seeing in China and other places? So crypto will win. It will be what type of crypto you want.
00:59:20.110 - 00:59:41.670, Speaker B: And there'll be two polls on the crypto continuum. One will have greater artistic expression, freedom and individual sovereignty, CFI, DeFI. The other will be state based digital currency, which we're seeing in some parts of the world today. And that'll actually be like our ideological matrix. And then different countries will plot themselves on that matrix. And so they'll occupy the physical space and have the rights to violence.
00:59:42.170 - 00:59:51.340, Speaker C: So it'll be a matter of nation states, not a question of. It's a question of the timing of their adoption and in what way do they actually adopt it.
00:59:51.710 - 01:00:21.762, Speaker B: People with the power to push. Yeah, if you really want to push the analogy, it might break down a little bit further from there. What happened last time during Renaissance and post renaissance was there are definitely these blocks, these powers, us versus them, german imperium, Hacksburg versus France, or what have you. But along the edges, these little geographic communities sort of had. They broke off. They didn't just balkanize, they actually were much more fluid. They're like independent cantons almost.
01:00:21.762 - 01:00:56.334, Speaker B: This is still Switzerland today. Honestly, and so it'll be individuals and nation states adopting. But I still wouldn't rule out some edge cases where you have people getting together and under the protection or under the laws of these individual nation states operating with these edge cases in real physical cities that might be like Bellagi City. And by the way, we do this today, we just don't think about it this way. We're all medieval farmers and it never enters their head. But you could, hmm, what goes on for the US, what goes on in the Cayman Islands, what goes on in Puerto ago, if you're in Europe, what goes on in, or, you know, Malta. Right.
01:00:56.334 - 01:01:27.960, Speaker B: And like from that, like, who are the major players that instantiate with currencies and are kind of supernatural entities? Well, that'd know. Facebook, Apple, Microsoft and Google. So we already have scenarios of this where the techopolies are operating supernaturally, and instead of just individual and nation states adopting here and there, you have these edge cases where rules sort of don't apply and you're able to set up your own individual kind of scenario. So I think we have it today. The names will change. We'll probably just think about it differently if that helps. Man, that's a doozy of a question.
01:01:28.330 - 01:01:54.080, Speaker A: Yeah. With each question, we're falling down a rabbit hole after the rabbit hole. Okay. Molecule was up trying to ask a question, but I guess, yeah, he gave up, or she gave up, unfortunately. Yeah. And I don't see in the audience, so I can't call back the person. Sorry about that.
01:01:54.080 - 01:02:15.430, Speaker A: Anyone else has a question, just feel free to come up if. No. Okay. Yeah, we've got another person coming in. Hello, Jake. Welcome. Hi, Jake.
01:02:16.090 - 01:02:39.840, Speaker D: Hey, how's it going? Josh, question for you. I'm very interested in the intersect of the virtual and in real life components that you're talking about with nfts. Who's doing the best job right now of connecting the virtual NFT world to the real world and making sure that the real world items have the same provenance as the digital items that seem to be working so well.
01:02:40.770 - 01:03:24.778, Speaker B: Yeah, it's a really interesting question. I think it's definitely early, and I don't want to represent it as if I know the total space, but there's kind of two projects that I like to think about, and they work from different ends of the continuum. So starting from the, in the real world space becoming increasingly digital. I really like the helium model, and so don't get stuck. Helium is these little boxes that broadcast an Internet of things signal, and then they're broadcasting five g and soon to be satellite and other things. But the way to think about it is it's first the formation of a community that has an object of sociality, a box or a vector. Then they're incentivized with a crypto economic model around that, and they provide a good or a service or a piece of infrastructure in the real world.
01:03:24.778 - 01:04:01.702, Speaker B: And so that's one of the reasons, like Andreessen invested in them, was for solving that cold start problem. And so they're kind of the first wave of it. In 2022, you're going to see a lot more people doing things like that. That'll be energy and real estate and things like that. So that's taking an in real life thing like infrastructure, even something that government might have been providing previously, privatizing it through a shared community participation, and working from that, starting with the artistic or the virtual world. Again, it's early. I'm fascinated with what Wilder is doing, I have to admit.
01:04:01.702 - 01:04:59.866, Speaker B: Maybe I'm just into Frank's art, but the idea of literally taking lidar scans of a city and then rendering that city into a video game, carving up each one of those pieces of real estate and assets as an NFT, and then creating dows and guilds of people for whatever type of art you participate in, from sketching to coding, et cetera, et cetera, and subsuming all the artistic and NFT guilds into there NFT guilds and games into that. So whether it's alluvium on the NFT side, yeah, not even on the games, but even the communities, like, whether it's apes or punks or any of those people, like partnering with them into that, too. That's really interesting, using a lidar based rendering of that. And so I think that's probably the earliest piece of that. And their NFTs are still just pure metaverse right now. They're not kind of focusing on bi directional stuff. There are some people that are.
01:04:59.866 - 01:05:43.420, Speaker B: So there's the in real life people working from that end. There's the video game metaverse kind of people working from that end that have arts as guilds and that are financed, and then there's some people playing around with these kind of in between spaces. So, like Jake Frey at Americana, NFT is very well known for being kind of web two, and then also doing some artsy things and is big into the NFT space. And if you look at what he's doing at Americana, they have these projects of physical 3d NFTs, which have provenance attached to them, but then also extracting out that protocol through some sort of physical device to be able to not necessarily lidar scan, but to be able to instantiate onto an object, maybe a high end piece of art or maybe anything else. Those are sort of the middleware applications where they're doing really interesting things.
01:05:45.870 - 01:05:56.300, Speaker D: Yeah, I'm sorry to interrupt. I actually think I saw something about those guys. Aren't they developing some type of low cost chip to associate with physical objects, as well as like an identity layer of some?
01:05:56.610 - 01:05:59.198, Speaker B: Absolutely. And a protocol to go along with it?
01:05:59.364 - 01:06:13.890, Speaker D: Yeah. So how does that work? This is so super cool to me. How does that actually prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that the physical object is what it says it is, and that the chip can't be taken away from it or counterfeited?
01:06:16.230 - 01:06:40.282, Speaker B: That's a good thing to dig in with those guys and see different people are handling it in different ways. You can make an ironclad association between chip and between chain. Like obviously, just like you can forge an object, you might be able to forge that. Although different people do different things. Very similar to. One analogy to have in your head is something like a hardware wallet or a ledger. How does it actually know that that's like an object that associates with chain? I think there's different ways to approach that.
01:06:40.282 - 01:06:43.630, Speaker B: There'll always be edge cases, but that's the overall trajectory.
01:06:45.170 - 01:06:46.734, Speaker D: Thanks a lot, I appreciate it.
01:06:46.852 - 01:06:58.820, Speaker A: And I couldn't resist to ask you this question. I mean, it's early, and you didn't know who connects both, but you do know who's the best at connecting nfts and finance, right?
01:07:00.870 - 01:07:41.358, Speaker B: In all seriousness, everything we're saying, it goes without. I guess I should actually be super explicit about that. What Niftyfi is doing is all that stuff I said where the traders can actually, instead of owning a piece of GE stock, like actually own something that's meaningful to them and have economic value instantiated on that. That only works if there's liquidity and if there's velocity and if there's a market on that, right, and you can't have a permissionless kind of key holder on that, that can't be coinbase or what have you. And so literally what Niftyfi is doing, if Niftyfi weren't doing it, somebody else should be. You need that to actually make anything. I'm talking about work.
01:07:41.358 - 01:08:02.482, Speaker B: So it's incredibly important that Niftyfi is doing that, for sure. That's the only way. Honestly, when you're talking to the DeFi guys. And you have to explain it that way. Hey, you can actually have collateral on NFT. How do I do that? There's various ways I have to sell the whole thing. How do I do price discovery? Well, there's things like upshot where you can have communities kind of figuring out different price discovery models.
01:08:02.482 - 01:08:59.180, Speaker B: But the best form of price discovery is actually a marketplace, right? And the best form of marketplace is fractional, like with what you're doing. And to be honest about it, a lot of the stuff that I'm saying, you sort of need that fractional liquidity in a market to make sense. Because if what I'm saying is true, honestly, the metadata is probably going to become more important than the thing itself in terms of being able to create a market around that. So, like, if I'm looking know apartment buildings in Korea, basically being able to front run MLS and say, what's the price for the sort of thing? If an NFT covers an object, even in real, like I have to have fractional liquidity, but I also have to have that data on chain where I'm generating that price discovery. And so no joke, like Nifty five, if you're an artist or if you're interested in it, for sure, by all means look at it. But what you're doing actually plays like a really key role not just in market today, but in this market development. If anything that I'm talking about will actually come to pass.
01:08:59.870 - 01:09:53.180, Speaker A: Yeah, and just to describe in very few, very simple steps in terms of what we're doing, for those of you who don't know yet. So Niftyfi is a peer to peer marketplace where you can get a crypto loan against your NFT or give out a loan. And basically it's very simple. If you have an NFT that you need liquidity on and you don't want to sell it because you don't want to part with it, you can get a loan against it and then pay back and get your NFT back. If you have liquidity that you want to lend, you can earn on it. And in worst case, if it defaults, you get the NFT. So there's nothing really complex about it.
01:09:53.180 - 01:10:26.114, Speaker A: It's safe, it's secure, and it's peer to peer. Basically, it just puts your NFT to work. I know many people who have board apes, for example, and it's their only one. And obviously they don't want to part with it for sure in order not to lose all the membership perks, et cetera. So this is a very good solution for that. Anyway, you can look@niftypie.com and also, please come and join our Discord channel.
01:10:26.114 - 01:11:06.580, Speaker A: There will be loads of people who have used the platform that could give you their own experiences, share their own experiences with you. And I think that would be the best way to learn more about this. So we will be having these Twitter spaces way more often from now on. So if you would like to learn more about those, not miss it, come over and know about the guests in advance as well. Please make sure that you follow our Twitter account. And also you can click on the bell sign to make sure that you're notified every time. We will let you know about the upcoming Twitter spaces as well.
01:11:06.580 - 01:11:23.158, Speaker A: Yeah, so I guess that was it from my side. Josh, do you have time to have more questions or would you like sort of to start wrapping it up and finishing in about ten minutes? How do you feel about that?
01:11:23.324 - 01:11:27.682, Speaker B: Probably need to wrap it up and finish it in about ten minutes because I have to hop onto something. Sorry.
01:11:27.836 - 01:11:47.374, Speaker A: No, it's okay. Why I'm asking is because last time we spoke for three and a half hours. Yeah. And I don't want to keep you for so long either. Okay. So, guys, ten minutes. I guess ten minutes would be for about two more questions.
01:11:47.374 - 01:12:19.720, Speaker A: If anyone has any more questions or would like to come on stage. Yes, you have the last chance to come over. I guess. Two more people, two more questions, and we will be wrapping it up. No one? Okay. I guess since I don't see any requests, I think they are known, probably that's why I don't see them. Yeah.
01:12:19.720 - 01:12:28.300, Speaker A: I don't know. Any summarizing thoughts? Anything you would like to say that we didn't have chance to cover?
01:12:28.910 - 01:13:07.800, Speaker B: Oh, boy. No, I think we covered quite a bit. I definitely would say thanks for you doing all that you do in your space with your community, for sure, and for just giving this thesis, like, a chance to air out if any part of this is true. Even if I'm off by a magnitude of order too, it still means that none of us are bullish enough on crypto, and particularly on nfts. It's been the superset for identity versus government, politics and regulation, but also for financialization of something that's meaningful. So what you do personally and what you do in the day job with nifty Fi, those are both incredibly important things to the ecosystem. So thanks for doing that.
01:13:08.430 - 01:13:20.060, Speaker A: Thank you. Thanks a lot. We have one more person. If you have those ten minutes, let's just get the last question and then just say goodbye. Hello, Ruben. Welcome.
01:13:21.650 - 01:14:09.130, Speaker D: Hey, there. I had a question for the room, which is, how do you all feel about the theory that to the extent that rights without enforcement don't matter and that most enforcement historically has been bounded by the enforcement powers of nation states, which are bounded by geopolitical borders, and by extension, fail at the edge of those geopolitical borders, that there may be a path in the future where some of those gaps in enforcement, some of that jurisdictional bleed, may be supported and perhaps one day supplanted by jurisdiction, by protocol.
01:14:12.430 - 01:14:46.358, Speaker B: Yeah, I'll take a first crack at that. So I think yes, and amen on both sides. The first thing I'd say is that if you believe the identity piece where nation states are actually participating in a protocol around being on teams, kind of post Bretton woods capitalist communist becomes. What type of crypto do you want, then? Absolutely. I'd also say, I think we tend to think that things are enforced when oftentimes, at least from the financial side, they aren't. Right. So here in the United States, we talk about having a bank and having an account, and it has FDIC insurance, right, if it's up to $250,000.
01:14:46.358 - 01:15:24.580, Speaker B: And that's why people use traditional banks, because they're safer than crypto, which doesn't have insurance. But when you really dig into it, you can buy insurance on crypto, and the FDIC, in its long, storied history, is paid out exactly zero times. So even though we say we have enforcement on it, it's the idea of, like, a shared consensus or collective belief, even though there's no action or history backing that up. So against that layout, like, actually saying no, we can automate some of these dumb contracts and make them smart via protocol, where there is no individual adjudication on it, I think that moves us much closer in terms of that direction. So I think that's, like, one of the significant upsides to this.
01:15:26.890 - 01:15:27.640, Speaker D: Cool.
01:15:29.690 - 01:15:30.920, Speaker B: Really good question.
01:15:32.330 - 01:15:54.250, Speaker A: Yeah. Thank you very much. For everyone who was listening, please follow us. Please come and join our community. Please check us out and come to our next spaces. We'll be having more guests, we will be having more topics all related to the NFT space, more discuss. So we will even come up with more formats.
01:15:54.250 - 01:16:09.440, Speaker A: So, yeah, stay tuned. I will absolutely keep you updated on those. Thank you very much for your time, Josh. I hope you guys enjoyed the conversation, and we will meet you next week. Thank you very much, and take care.
01:16:09.890 - 01:16:11.420, Speaker B: Thanks so much, Annie. Thanks so much, guys.
