00:00:00.250 - 00:01:04.610, Speaker A: You. Hi everyone, thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. First Headline Fidelity bets on bitcoin with new fund Forbes reports that Fidelity president and head of consulting Peter Jubber filed paperwork Wednesday for a new Bitcoin dedicated fund with a minimum investment of $100,000 likely aimed at institutional and credited investors. Called the Wise Origin Bitcoin Index Fund, it does not yet have investors and is unclear what the relationship is between Fidelity Digital Asset and an organization called Wise Origin Funds. Fidelity Brokerage Services LLC is to be the fund's custodian. Fidelity's Intellectual property vice president has filed a trademark application for the name Wise Origin Funds. Frank Chaparro of the Bloc wrote that a Bitcoin fund by Fidelity could be the next best thing to a Bitcoin ETF because although the fund will not be available to retail investors, it could potentially become available to investor advisors to sell to their own clients.
00:01:04.610 - 00:02:21.738, Speaker A: Next Headline Shifting Approach to inflation by Fed could bolster bitcoin A new policy unveiled Thursday by Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell would lead inflation rates and thus the costs of borrowing, to stay low for longer. The change would allow inflation to run higher than usual for certain periods to target an average inflation rate of 2% over time. Bitcoiners such as the Winklevoss twins pointed to the change to bolster their contention that the US. Dollar is an increasingly unreliable store of value and coming inflation will devalue the dollar further, allowing bitcoin with its cap supply, to potentially overtake gold bitly in value after Powell outlined the Fed's new tolerance for higher inflation. But so far, there has been an otherwise muted reaction to Powell's comments. Analysts previously speculated that Powell's speech could help boost bitcoin and lead to further drops in the power of the dollar, but the long term effect of the new policy remains to be seen. Next Headline SEC expands the Definition Credit Investor The securities and Exchange Commission revised the definition of accredited investor, which determines who is able to participate in private investments such as token sales.
00:02:21.738 - 00:03:21.006, Speaker A: Now, not only are income or net worth acceptable qualifications, but so are certain designations or credentials based on professional knowledge or certifications. For instance, holders of series 765 and 82 licenses which have to do with private security, sales and investment advising are now included. However, because this would not significantly increase the pool of accredited investors, response to the news was mixed. Athena Blockchain, general counsel, Drew Hick tweeted, that not meaningful, at least not yet. Cardozo School of Law professor and Open Law co founder Aaron Wright tweeted, however, that the news was, quote, a big step in the right direction, setting up a framework for technical accreditation in the future. SEC Commissioner Hester Purse issued a statement calling for even greater expansion to the definition. She said, quote Why shouldn't mom and pop retail investors be allowed to invest in private offerings? Why should I, as a regulator, decide what other Americans do with their money.
00:03:21.006 - 00:04:51.606, Speaker A: Next Headline FTX acquires Blockfolio for $150,000,000 Crypto Derivatives Exchange FTX has acquired popular crypto data app Blockfolio in a $150,000,000 attempt to expand its retail footprint. The deal came out of initial discussions between the companies about how they might collaborate and is one of the largest acquisitions in crypto this year. Blockfolio, which has 6 million users and receives 150,000,000 impressions a month, will receive a mix of equity, FTX's native token and cash. It remains unclear how Blockfolio will fit into the FTX ecosystem, although the firms are working on a retail trading feature and the deal is seen as akin to finance acquisition of coin market cap, and that coin market cap and Blockfolio could bring in a lot of traffic that then funnels down to their respective exchange partners. Next Headline DCG to invest $100 Million in bitcoin mining Digital Currency Group revealed a new mining subsidiary called Foundry that will invest $100 million in mining bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies in North America. Foundry has been operating its own mining operations since 2019, plus offering crypto startups mining equipment and financing, and it also plans to move into staking. DCG founder and CEO Barry Silbert hopes to increase the US's share of global bitcoin production, especially compared to that of China, as there are currently few significant mining operations in North America.
00:04:51.606 - 00:06:30.006, Speaker A: However, a number of failed efforts here previously could indicate that it may be a hard road ahead. The firm expects DCG's Network deep experience in crypto and support from federal and local officials, who may also not want to seed production of bitcoin to China to help it succeed. Next Headline How Will copycat projects fare in DeFi the yield farming? Craze has raised a question if it's easy to fork code and launch a project that promises advantages over the original, and if it's so easy for users to move from project to project chasing the highest yield, then what will survive the block's? Stephen Zhang notes that August saw a number of copycat projects that piggybacked off other projects'code to launch their own tokens, along with Catchy Memes and Enticing yield farming schemes. Yearn and Yam are great examples of this, and in the area of DEXs, or automated market makers, Munaswap and SushiSwap are near clones of current heavyweight Uniswap. Munaswap claims to improve on Uniswap by preventing arbitrageors from taking all the slippage and instead keeping most of it in the pool to redistribute to liquidity providers. Meanwhile, SushiSwap has a governance token, Sushi part of which will be set aside to fund development, which at Uniswap is currently funded by VCs. And Steven's conclusion is quote at the end of the day, like the mania of 2017, these often uninspired forks of other forks will attract liquidity into the ecosystem, and as a result of a sector flushed with cash, we may see some truly useful projects flourish.
00:06:30.006 - 00:07:30.220, Speaker A: Next Headline Fun Bits Arthur Hayes weighs in on yield farming Arthur Hayes of BitMax or what is now called 100 X Group, is always entertaining to read, and his latest misf on his adventures in DFI, as well as his breakdown of what drives demand and supply and crypto credit is no exception. He begins quote I lack access to nightclubs and most other forms of revelry. Therefore I decided to become a crypto peasant. After describing the main players in the crypto ecosystem miners, speculators, borrowers, lenders, exchanges, etc. He talks about how DeFi has decentralized all of it and then says that he is enjoying yield farming, meme tokens. However, like any smart investor in crypto, he fully expects to lose all his money. Quote in my head, I like to believe I can read market sentiment and get out of the top of the bull market, but in reality, like most other traders, I will buy high, hold, hold and sell well after the top.
00:07:30.220 - 00:07:54.898, Speaker A: All right, well, thanks for tuning in. To learn more about Joe and Consensus'acquisition of Quorum, be sure to check out the links in the show notes of this episode. Don't forget, you can now watch video recordings of the show on the Unchained YouTube channel. Go to youtube.com slash c slash Unchained podcast and subscribe. Today. Unconfirmed is produced by Me Laura Shin, with help from Anthony Yoon, Daniel Ness and the team at CLK Transcription.
00:07:54.898 - 00:07:55.730, Speaker A: Thanks for listening.
