00:00:00.240 - 00:00:50.442, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Delhi refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host, the Anthony Cesano, and today is the 1 November 2022. Alright everyone, let's get into it. So a little discussion here, spurred on by Tim Biko today on Twitter, where he starts off by saying, proposals to address MeV censorship resistance often remove degrees of freedom from validators, eg, forces them to discriminate on profitability, to process MeV, etcetera. This is often a tangential point, though. It'd be good to know, to think of what validators rights should be. For example, should a validator be able to prioritize their own transactions? Assuming Max fee is greater than base fee, should they be able to ignore Mev completely? Should they be probabilistically guaranteed to propose a block every n slots to compete in auctions, et cetera? There are obviously trade offs, eg.
00:00:50.442 - 00:02:02.678, Speaker A: If I can choose to include my own transaction, then I can also choose to reject transactions from others. Easier censorship. And then Tim continues on a little bit here about this topic, and I replied, basically saying, you know, maybe this is a controversial opinion, but I don't think validators should have any quote unquote rights because it's an opt in role and they are paid for their service. So I've always had this opinion of both miners and validators and as basically these kind of, for lack of a better term, dumb pieces of software, so to speak, or kind of like dumb actors within the network, where, I don't mean dumb as like a derogatory term, but I mean, you know, they do a task, right? The, you know, and they, and they get paid for that task. Now, how much freedoms and rights should they have for getting paid for that task? Well, it's debatable, right? That's why Tim has put out this tweet thread here. And I just don't think that they really should have any rights because as I said there, it's an opt in thing, right? Like, you opt in, like, it's not like staking on a theorem is something that you have to do. It's not something that, that mo, that people who are, I don't know, struggling to make ends meet are going to do, right? It's not like, it's like, it's not like a job in real life where you have to go get a job if you don't want to end up homeless or something.
00:02:02.678 - 00:02:38.034, Speaker A: Like, staking is a privilege, really, when you, when you think about it, and you get paid for that privilege. And obviously in return you secure the network. You know, you put up that collateral, which is obviously 32 weeks if you're a solo validator. And, you know, you get paid for that service. There. Now, right now, validators do have quite a bit of power, right? Because they get to order transactions in a block. And due to that, due to this power, there has been the blossoming of the MeV realize, or MEV, general Mev generally, and Mev relay infrastructure over the past, I guess, twelve months, twelve to 18 months or so.
00:02:38.034 - 00:03:13.462, Speaker A: And then on top of that, we've seen the effects of that, such as censorship as well, which is obviously where this discussion is kind of spurring from. And then Victor Bunin here kind of replied to my tweet and said, you know, it's not really right in the traditional sense. He means more like what facets they have control over. And then I said, sure. In that case, I think there's a minimal, viable control principle that we could follow here. The protocol should minimize the ways in which validators can adversely affect the network, such as direct attacks, censorship, et cetera, and also allow validators some freedoms, such as picking their own clients. There's a pretty important delineation here that I want to make.
00:03:13.462 - 00:03:45.146, Speaker A: So what I meant by this was basically there are in protocol things that validators can do, right, such as censorship, right. And these are things that affect the, the entire network in, in a, in, you know, in more ways than one, obviously. And it's things that they can do directly with their validator power. No matter what software they're running, if they're running prism, Lighthouse, doesn't matter, they're still able to do that. That's uniform across them all. But when it comes to allowing the validators certain freedoms, I'm all for allowing the validators to choose whatever client they want to run. Right? We have a multi client architecture.
00:03:45.146 - 00:04:41.748, Speaker A: I'm all for allowing them to choose those, those clients. I'm all for allowing them to have other similar freedoms to that. But as long as they're not directly in protocol and not directly affecting the network in negative ways, which obviously in a direct attack would do, and also censorship does. So it's a quite a wide discussion space here, and that's why I think Timmy's soliciting opinions from the wider community generally, and you can go give your own to him if you, if you feel like it. But I think just generally the principle I'm following with validators is that we want them to be as neutral as possible. And we want to take away as much power as they have as possible from them to order transactions because we've seen that does not end anywhere good. Like, even though we have the MEV relay infrastructure that's getting better over time, and then we have things like PBS coming, I still think that we should work over the longer term as much as possible to just remove as much power from validators as possible.
00:04:41.748 - 00:05:10.990, Speaker A: Because as I said, they're getting paid for their work. They have a job, they get paid for that job. That's it. We shouldn't allow them to have all these, all these kind of powers to adversely affect the protocol. And, you know, there's not really analogy that could be drawn here between, say, a validator and a normal worker in the real world. Obviously, workers in the real world have rights, and those rights are respected and those rights obviously needed. But as I mentioned before, like, validating is an opt in thing.
00:05:10.990 - 00:06:11.808, Speaker A: It is not something that you, I mean, it's really a bonus on top of what you've already got. Anyone using validator, using validated income as their main source of income, will have, uh, other, so other, um, investments that they've got that, that acts as kind of like, uh, I guess like a safe haven for them or a safety net, I should say, for them. And at the end of the day, if they're at solar validator, they already have 32 ETH or more, right? If they've got one solar validator, they have 32 ETH, which is not, um, you know, chump change. So there is a very big difference between, uh, being, you know, required and forced into needing to get a job because obviously you need to survive. Need to survive and, and staking your 8th for a supplemental income, so to speak, from, you know, supplemental income to your other, to the other income that you generate. Sorry, I'm going all over the place tonight, but yeah, hopefully that gets my point across about how I view these things. But as I said, tim is looking for opinions on this, so definitely go give a reply in the tweets, right, if you do have an opinion on this.
00:06:11.808 - 00:06:56.828, Speaker A: And I'd also love to get opinions from you guys in the Daily gray Discord channel or in the YouTube comments, wherever you want to put them. There are a lot of great things that you can read through here as well. And there's actually one reply, uh, from Mikalaj that I wanted to read out where he said, you know, validator control is actually a legal liability. Some degree may be worth keeping despite that, but it will be hard to convince policymakers that both. And he quotes two things here where he says validate validators are just like neutral SMTP slash TCIP routers, and that they should be able to profit from deciding which transactions to include. And this is, I guess, like in line with what I'm saying about we need to get validators to a neutral place as possible. Not just from a health of the network perspective, but also from a policy or regulatory perspective.
00:06:56.828 - 00:07:34.226, Speaker A: Because at the end of the day, it's gonna be really, really hard to convince these regulators that validators are neutral players when right now they're not, right? They're, they're not at all. I mean, most of the network is using mev boost. That is not a neutral thing to do. They're going out and making decision to outsource their block building to a relayer that is opinionated because some relay sensor, some relay is don't. Either side of that is an opinion. So really, at the end of the day, we want to remove that completely for both health of the network and for, I guess, regulatory reasons as well. But yeah, I thought that was a good little reply there, but you can go check this out now.
00:07:34.226 - 00:08:04.580, Speaker A: A couple more things about Mev before I move on. On Mevwatch dot in Fo, they are now tracking the new relay, or relay, which I've spoken about over the past few days. So really awesome to see that. You can see over the last day it has proposed 0.3% of mev boost blocks. And my calculation yesterday where I said it, it would account for about 1% of relays that are using mev boost, right? Or sorry, I should say 1% of all validators using relayer. That's just a flat thing.
00:08:04.580 - 00:08:39.734, Speaker A: That doesn't mean that it's proposing 1% of all blocks within mev boost competing with these other relayers, because that takes time to build up. It's a probabilistic thing, and it depends on profitability as well. So you can see over the last seven days as well what they've been proposing that'll grow over time. You can see the last seven days, it's less because as I said, I think, I don't even think they've been live for seven days yet, but over the last day, they're at 0.3% already, and you can see blocks around max profit is over 7% as well. So we're really getting better diversity with these relayers slowly over time. Now, I'll revisit this from time to time.
00:08:39.734 - 00:09:13.794, Speaker A: Obviously it's going to take a while before we get better diversity here, but it's great to see that it's actually happening. And another website that I came across today that graystroke in the daily gray Discord channel shared is this one that allows you to monitor the uptime of different relays. So this is at Mev dash relays dot Beaconstate dot in Fo. You can go check this out, I'll link in the YouTube description as well, but I'm not sure how reliable it is. I've only seen this today, but basically it shows you the uptime of these validate of these relays, I should say per day. And you can see here it goes, it goes back. I don't know how far it goes back, but it goes back pretty far.
00:09:13.794 - 00:09:57.178, Speaker A: And then you can see all the relays listed here as well and their uptime and how they're faring on the network. Alright, so speaking of resources, you should check out, Superfizz has a new resource here where he says, I didn't find a great listing of Ethereum related information dashboards, so I started cobbling one together. Please feel free to point me to something better, submit prs to this one, or just tell me what's missing. So this is basically a list of, of resources all about Ethereum. So Ethereum dashboards and resources, it just got started, obviously today, I just saw it today, or yesterday I think I believe I might have missed. But if you have resources that you want to add to this, you can definitely go do that on GitHub. I'll link this in the YouTube description, but this is a good, good start.
00:09:57.178 - 00:10:15.042, Speaker A: I think it's got a lot of the resources that I've used on the refill before. Obviously you guys know about things like ultrasound money and rated.net work, which I've been using a lot. Project Sunshine node, watch all these things here that I've, that I've used. So you can go check that out. And actually, I just want to check. What I want to check out is rated.net
00:10:15.042 - 00:10:42.510, Speaker A: work, which is actually, oh, maybe I should tell superfuse this, it's actually linking to the Doon analytics dashboard here instead of rated.net work. The link is, is not correct there, but I want to bring Raider.net work up in here because I want to see. Yeah, so I've been discussing this kind of phenomenon, not phenomenon, but like this trend that Coinbase has started using mev boost recently and they're up to 4.4% of flashbots and 0.7% of blocks route.
00:10:42.510 - 00:11:05.706, Speaker A: So it seems that they're not pointing to any one relayer and just forcing their validators to use any one relayer. They are using multiple here, so it's just two so far. But I'm hoping to see that grow into a nice little diverse set of relays. But yeah, Coinbase has definitely switched on mev boost for their validators. They. They weren't doing this until recently. I think maybe a week, week and a half ago they start.
00:11:05.706 - 00:11:35.830, Speaker A: I started noticing this, but they're definitely in the game now in terms of other ones that haven't actually done anything yet. Bitcoin Sweeze has Swiss, I should say, sorry, has 2% of the network. They're not running any mev boost relays right now. And if I keep going, I mean, you can see here, I mean, we go down to Vitalik. Yeah, Vitalik, some 0.05% of the network, and he's running 100% lighthouse, but 0% mev boost. So I guess like the biggest entities that are running the.
00:11:35.830 - 00:12:13.754, Speaker A: I guess like all flash, but not all flashbots, but mostly flashbots, you've got lighter here, which, and then you've got binance, you got rocket pool, steak, fish, and then it goes, it goes down from there. It's funny seeing the difference in, I guess, distribution between these different relays. Obviously, as I mentioned before, it's going to depend a lot on profitability as well, like how profitable each of these relays are, will determine how many. How many blocks they see, how many blocks they propose. But, yeah, I'm glad we have dashboards like this to track it. Obviously, we need this sort of stuff, and I'm really glad that Mevwatch dot in Fo has added the relay, or relay here. It's very, very cool to see.
00:12:13.754 - 00:13:13.956, Speaker A: All right, interesting tweet out of from David Hoffman today, where he said the op stack is going to modularize every L2 into little l two genes, and then the l two genes are going to fight, just like Dawkins predicted. This is pretty cool because it aligns with my thinking about how L2s generally are going to evolve and work within the ecosystem. I've always had this thesis that, and I've mentioned this on the refill before that, because ethereum layer one is, and is basically cementing themselves as just a settlement layer and outsourcing execution to these L2s. It means we're going to have such a blossoming ecosystem of different L2s out there, and then within those L2 projects, they're going to have their own different implementations of that that are going to be both supplementary and complex. Supplementary, complementary and also competitive with each other. So an example here is arbitrum, nova and arbitram one, very complementary but very different things. Arbitrum one is a roll up.
00:13:13.956 - 00:14:23.266, Speaker A: Arbitrary man over is not a roll up, right? It's in any trust chain. And then with within op, you also have the optimism, optimistic ethereum roll up. And then you have that Minecraft clone that I showed the other day, the op crafting, which I don't believe is actually a roll up, but it's using the op stack. So, and then within that, right, there's going to be like l three s and l four s and all that sort of stuff built on these things. So because we have all of this, I guess, competition happening at L2s, not just between the different L2 teams, but also within them, between their own implementations, and then also above that, with the layer threes and layer fours, we have such an incredible ecosystem developing that the other layer ones, I just look at them and I'm like, how can they even compete with this? Because not only did I have to compete with a theorem, layer one first and foremost, then if for some reason they're able to get to a point where, I don't know, they've kind of gotten to the point where they're, they're basically on the same, not the same pedestal as a theory and, but like, broken through that, that, I guess, barrier, right? There's a certain barrier to breakthrough, but then you have to compete with all the ethereum L2s. It's just, in my mind, it's basically impossible. And people will say, oh, well, that's like a monopolistic attitude.
00:14:23.266 - 00:15:08.562, Speaker A: I'm like, no, no, no, I don't believe that things shouldn't compete with layer one, right? Layer one ethereum. And obviously we've had plenty of things competing with layer one ethereum, but nothing's even come close. And it's actually quite, quite sad how pathetic the competition has been. So there's been competition, it just has been inferior to a theorem in every way. It hasn't been able to dethrone Ethereum at all. And now we have L2s, which are all competing with each other, but they're all so competing with different layer ones, especially the ones who are the monolithic chains, right? We've, we've talked about this monolithic modular architecture before. They're competing with all these monoliths, and they're already bigger than most of the Alt L1 s, like, and there's, and there's just so many of these l two s that are out there right now, and I'm only talking about the top two right now, albatrum and optimism.
00:15:08.562 - 00:15:56.670, Speaker A: Right? Arbitrum one, I should say, and optimism's main roll up network. So because of that, I don't think, I don't think it's monopolistic. Just because Ethereum layer one is that settlement layer for all the L2s doesn't, doesn't mean Ethereum is a monopoly. Ethereum has to compete in the free market just like every other layer one does. And Ethereum has been able to compete in such a way where it's beat back all of that, all of those attacks, so to speak. And I used to say, and I actually said this quite a while ago, I don't know if I've said it on the refuel before, but basically the way I rank different layer ones, and I should say smart contract layer ones because I don't include bitcoin in this, but the way I rank smart contract layer ones is that there's a theory and then everyone else is fighting for second place, right? Because there's no, in my, in my mind right now, there is no second place. I know I sound like Michael Saylor right now.
00:15:56.670 - 00:16:33.724, Speaker A: He said there is no second best. I don't mean it in terms of nothing can compete, nothing can even come close to Ethereum. But when you look at the landscape of other layer ones out there, even if I had a gun to my head, it'd be really hard for me to just come up with something that's in second place. Because you asked me a few months ago, it might be one thing you asked me today, it might be another thing you asked me. In a few months, it might be another thing again. Right? So there's Ethereum, then there's everyone else fighting to be number two, and then there's all the Ethereum L2s, which are part of the Ethereum ecosystem anyway, so they don't need to compete with it, with all these other things. They get to inherit Ethereum, you know, theorem's place in the, in the ecosystem, so to speak.
00:16:33.724 - 00:16:56.556, Speaker A: So, yeah, I just, that's, that's the way I think about things. I know people call me an ETH max if you're thinking like that. But hey, at the end of the day, Ethereum has faced so much competition, has gone through so many trials and tribulations, it's still here. It's still improving. It's still the biggest network by far. It has to be doing something right. And then now we have all these L2s which are just adding even more utility to the Ethereum network, adding the scalability, of course, and privacy and all that sorts of stuff.
00:16:56.556 - 00:17:26.650, Speaker A: It's just, it's going to get harder and harder to compete with a theory. I'm now, and as I said, I don't want a theorem to be a monopoly. It's not a monopoly because it really can't be when the markets this free at the end of the day, like, there's no central body protecting Ethereum. Ethereum is not government sanctioned or protected by, by government. It doesn't acquire other networks. It's not, it's not centralized in general, but, you know, it's able to compete because its community is so strong. Its alignment around what it wants to be from the community is so strong.
00:17:26.650 - 00:18:00.764, Speaker A: And I believe that's going to continue as, as time goes on. All right, so speaking of, I guess, like scalability in general, immutable has announced the GameStop NFT marketplace is now live on immutable X. So immutable X, as you all know, is powered by starkware technology. And this advances the next generation of web3 games on immutable X. Now, you guys know I'm an investor in Immutable X here, one of the only NFT related investments that I've made because I believe in investing in NFT related infrastructure. But that's not investment advice. This is how I play things.
00:18:00.764 - 00:18:33.540, Speaker A: But basically this has been in the works for a little while here. So it's great to see that this partnership has, has materialized into the marketplace being officially live. But immutable X generally has been killing it lately in terms of who they're onboarding, right? They're on boarding a lot of different games. You guys know that I've been kind of bearish on web3 games in general, but I think when it comes to gaming, I view it the same way as I view, like, just businesses in general. Most of them are going to fail, but the ones that succeed will be really big. So maybe 90 plus percent, maybe even more than that fails. But the ones that succeed are going to be big.
00:18:33.540 - 00:19:11.898, Speaker A: They're going to find a nice player base, and they're actually going to go on to be profitable because at the end of the day, these things are basically still businesses. They need to be profitable, they need to be generating revenue, you know, and obviously they have tokens, they have nfts, they're different ways to do that. And some of them might do governance and things like that. I mean, obviously there's, it's on a case by case basis, but still we have a lot of these things coming to market now. Are some of them scams and griffs? I mean, maybe most of them are scams and grips. Who knows, right? I haven't looked into all of them, but I've been seeing immutable x talk about all these partnerships that they've been having and all these games that are, that are being on boarded. And I think that's, that's pretty cool there.
00:19:11.898 - 00:19:46.418, Speaker A: But yeah, cool to see that this marketplace is now live. You can go check it out at NFT dot gamestop.com. All right, so K'Nex has an update on their Amarok upgrade which I spoke about a few months ago. And I remember saying that they delayed their Amarok upgrade but now they are ready to deploy it. So this is a network upgrade for the connects network and it's finally complete and it's ready to be launched into beta in the coming weeks. So yeah, we can expect this maybe in the next week or two or maybe possibly three. But yeah, I've been talking about Amarok for quite a while and there's a thread here that you can read, which I'll link in the YouTube description below.
00:19:46.418 - 00:20:37.122, Speaker A: And there's also a new blog post talking about, I guess, the next wave of applications on Connext and what they're enabling with Amarok. And I believe, yeah, connects has also announced that they're doing a token, the next token, which I don't think is live yet, but that seems to be, I guess, going to be coming after the, the Amarok upgrade. But yeah, if you want to read about this, you can go check out the blog post and the Twitter thread. But great to see that the bridging infrastructure is still making strides. I remember I said to you guys that I think that there's a lot of bridges, but I don't think like, I think it's gonna be like a power law distribution. It seems the front runner right now, at least it seems to be hot protocol, from what I've seen, connects these either a close second or maybe equal in terms of that. And then there are aggregators like Li Fi or Lite fi and then there are a bunch of others out that I mentioned before.
00:20:37.122 - 00:20:57.198, Speaker A: I can't remember off the top of my head, but yeah, it's always going to be a power law distribution because of things like liquidity and brand awareness and all the usual stuff that I've spoken about before. So, yeah, I mean, I should mention, I'm an investor in connect. Not trying to. Not trying to shield them or anything. Not investor in hop. They actually didn't take any investors from. From what I know, which is actually pretty cool.
00:20:57.198 - 00:21:12.238, Speaker A: But, yeah, credit where it's drew. They've. They've grown their. Their bridging infrastructure to place to a. To a very nice place. They've got a lot of liquidity running through them. I believe they actually did achieve $3 billion worth of liquidity running through them, that milestone today.
00:21:12.238 - 00:21:37.310, Speaker A: So congrats to them on that. But, yeah, I'm very much looking forward to this major upgrade coming to kinext in Amarok. I think it's going to be. It's going to be awesome. All right, so, Alan protocol announced that they are now live on Arbitrum. So this is a permissionless fundraising platform which is now available to more users. Many protocols have expressed interest in Ailin, and we're excited to be in the infrastructure protocols used to raise needed funds.
00:21:37.310 - 00:22:18.460, Speaker A: Now, this is a protocol that I believe spun out of the synthetics ecosystem, or at least came out of Kane Warwick, which is obviously the founder of Synthetix. And it was live on optimism, and now it's live on arbitrary as well. So very cool to see this. And as I said, they're a fundraising platform, permissionless fundraising platform, trying to, I guess, take icos to the next level, so to speak, because, you know, I have a love hate relationship with icos. I understand why they failed and why they didn't work in 2017, but there are actually a fair few projects that came out of doing an ICO in 2017 that went on to succeed. Yes, most of them failed. Yes, most of them were on money grab, but we still got some successes out of it.
00:22:18.460 - 00:22:47.266, Speaker A: So I don't think the notion of, like, fundraising via the public is necessarily bad. I actually think it's a pretty cool thing, but it's all about the implementation. And Alan protocol is trying to bring a new implementation to market to do this. And you can see actually on my screen right now what that. What their kind of implementation actually entails. But there have been other attempts as well, like idos. But I actually think idos were more predatory than predatory than icos, because the ido was basically just the exchange being.
00:22:47.266 - 00:23:16.970, Speaker A: Sorry, I should say, ieo, initial exchange offerings. It was just basically the exchange running it, and the exchange being the house, so to speak. And a lot of them were extremely predatory. But when it comes to permissionless fundraising, that's done in a decentralized way, I think there's still a lot of ways that we can iterate on that, and that's what Alan protocol is doing. So go check them out. I'll link it in the YouTube description below. I finally hear a discussion about the DefcoN and the DeFCON seven location.
00:23:16.970 - 00:23:39.732, Speaker A: So, proposals to send Sarah there are. They're taking proposals for the DeFCON seven location right now, but only till today, basically. So that's the deadline for putting through proposals here. And there has been quite a few proposals for the location. Obviously, DeFcon six was hosted in Columbia, in. In Bogota there. But there are a lot of different places that have been suggested for.
00:23:39.732 - 00:23:56.442, Speaker A: For Defcon seven. I think the most popular ones are Vietnam, Turkey, Israel. And I'm just going through the list here, and. And Portugal, maybe I can just. You can see the most popular ones here, the ones with the most views. So there's. There's Vietnam, there's.
00:23:56.442 - 00:24:11.954, Speaker A: There's Taiwan. Taiwan as well. There's Turkey, and then there's Portugal. Turkey seems to have the most amount of views in Istanbul. In Turkey, which would actually make a lot of sense because one of the. One of the Ethereum hard forks was called Istanbul. I don't know where I sit on this.
00:24:11.954 - 00:24:30.194, Speaker A: I honestly haven't been to any of these countries yet. So I would love to visit, like, really, any of them that I listed out. But you know what? I actually think that it's kind of a toss up between these. These four right now. I'm not sure exactly where they're going to. Where they going to to land on here. I'm curious to know what their, um.
00:24:30.194 - 00:24:57.434, Speaker A: Their logic is for selecting a location. And there's also, like, in these proposals, there's a bunch of questions that get asked around. You know, things like, uh, is there more. Are there modern venues? How is transportation? How can people get there? You know, what's the, I guess, city like, generally? And people put forward these proposals with all these sorts of, uh, all the answers here for this, but, yeah, I'd be happy with any of these locations, honestly, I've never. As I said, I've never been to any of these. Vietnam, Turkey, Israel, uh, Portugal. Never been.
00:24:57.434 - 00:25:18.942, Speaker A: Or even. Even Taiwan as well. Maybe I'd prefer it to be maybe in Asia because it's closer to me to fly to. You know what? Israel and Turkey wouldn't be too bad, either. And what else is there? Portugal. Portugal probably be the worst in terms of traveling, but yeah, if it happens in Vietnam and Taiwan, I'll be happy. But anyway, I'm definitely rambling now.
00:25:18.942 - 00:25:42.330, Speaker A: If you want to propose your own location, you can. You know, actually, I. Ideally, I would love it to be in Australia one day in Melbourne or Sydney. Obviously, I'm biased towards Melbourne since I live here, but I would love Defcon to one day come to. To Australia. I don't think it would, because, honestly, I get it. Because, like, I understand what it's like to travel from Australia to basically anywhere else in the world.
00:25:42.330 - 00:26:01.280, Speaker A: It's. It's a long travel time. I mean, I think the shortest travel time overseas, quote quote unquote, is, um, is probably, uh. Where is it? Maybe New Zealand, which is about three and a half hours, or vanuatu, which is a bit closer. But other than that, yeah, it's. It's not. It's not an easy travel time, and especially to.
00:26:01.280 - 00:26:09.720, Speaker A: To Europe and. And the US. Not. Not very easy. Especially east coast us and in Europe generally. So I get why they don't. They probably wouldn't want to do it in.
00:26:09.720 - 00:26:26.104, Speaker A: In Australia, but I'm hoping for more australian based ETH conferences anyway in the future. But I'm with that. I'm gonna leave it at that today. So thank everyone for listening and watching. Be sure to subscribe to the channel if you haven't yet, give it a thumbs up. Subscribe to newsletter, join the Discord Channel and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
