00:00:03.210 - 00:00:58.618, Speaker A: Thanks for tuning in to this week's news recap. Sam Bankman Fried tries to win over the public. As we just discussed on the show, former FTX CEO Sam Bankman Fried did an interview with Andrew Ross Sorkin at the New York Times DealBook summit, but he was also in a number of other places this week in response to a question of whether the funds from FTX were sent to Lamita, his trading firm, which was led by Caroline Ellison. He said that he screwed up and that he didn't knowingly commingle funds. Additionally, he said that he didn't intend to commit fraud, as was noted on the Chopping Block Livestream Show on Wednesday, which will be released on the podcast tomorrow. Whether Bankman Fried knew what was going on or not is very important because that could determine whether he will face criminal or civil charges. Many on crypto Twitter did not believe a word of Bingfund Fried's comments.
00:00:58.618 - 00:02:20.310, Speaker A: Benny Langham, general partner at Multicoin Capital, said the SBF legal strategy is to attempt to characterize fraud as incompetence in order to stay out of jail. David Marcus, co founder and CEO at Lightspark, said he was speechless at the level of reality distortion field at play here. However, SBF got at least one supporter, CEO of Pershing Square and billionaire Bill Ackman tweeted he believes SPF is telling the truth, which promptly got ratioed, and to which SPF responded that he deeply appreciates it. Also this week, in an audio interview with Celsius creditor Tiffany Fong, SBF dismissed the rumors of a backdoor, which he allegedly used to move funds from FTX to Alameda without triggering any alerts. He also addressed the value of FTT, the token of FTX, saying that it was more legit than most tokens. In a later interview with ABC News'George Stephanopoulos on Good Morning America, Bankman Fried claimed again that he knew nothing about the improper use of FTX's funds and said that he didn't even try to do risk management. However, talking with New York magazine's Jen Vietchner, SPF said he wishes he hadn't bailed out the industry and he avoided the question of how the customer's funds were lost.
00:02:20.310 - 00:03:01.014, Speaker A: BlockFi sues FTX. Apart from filing for bankruptcy, BlockFi is also suing Sam Bankman Fried over Robinhood shares that FTX pledged his collateral. Bankman Freed held about 7.6% of Robinhood class A common stock. According to Blockfly's first day court bankruptcy hearing, FTX and Alameda Research owe over $1 billion to Blockfly. With Alameda owing $671,000,000 on a now defaulted loan and FTX owing $355,000,000 in frozen funds, Apple decides that users of Coinbase Wallet shall not transfer. NFTs tech giant Apple, valued at $2.36
00:03:01.014 - 00:03:46.786, Speaker A: trillion, blocked the latest version of Coinbase Wallet until a feature that allows users to send NFTs over iOS is disabled. The decision has to do with Apple's policy of charging a fee of 30% for every transaction going under a mobile application in its operating system, iOS. According to Coinbase, Apple wants to collect 30% of the gas fees required to send NFTs. Coinbase was openly critical of Apple's decision. The company wrote this is akin to Apple trying to take a cut of fees for every email that gets sent over open Internet protocols. Apple has introduced new policies to protect their profits at the expense of consumer investment in NFTs and developer innovation across the crypto ecosystem. Authorities have their eyes on FTX.
00:03:46.786 - 00:04:16.154, Speaker A: The implosion of FTX keeps resonating with authorities. In Washington. At the New York Times DealBook summit, u. S. Treasury secretary Janet Yellen called it the Lehman moment for crypto. In addition, during a Senate Banking Committee hearing, Senator Elizabeth Warren called FTX not much more than a handful of magic beans. Meanwhile, during the first Senate hearing on FTX, CFTC Chair Rostin Benham kept pushing for his agency to have more power to regulate the crypto industry.
00:04:16.154 - 00:05:06.830, Speaker A: He said, to prevent this from happening again, we must be provided appropriate authority by Congress. As was previously announced, legislators and regulators are probing the collapse of FTX. The House Financial Services Committee announced that it will hold its first FTX hearing on December 13, hoping to get clearer answers about the mismanagement of the company. Additionally, in a speech on Sunday, the Bahamas Attorney General Ryan Pinder said that regulators in the country are also investigating Sam Begman Fried and FTX. Genesis is being investigated by regulators. According to Barron's, Genesis is being investigated by the Alabama Securities Commission and other states. Regulators are reportedly studying how crypto firms are connected to each other, the connection between Genesis and retail investors, and the possibility that Genesis violated securities laws.
00:05:06.830 - 00:05:52.714, Speaker A: One of the most pressing issues of DCG and Genesis is Graceguild's bitcoin trust or GBTC. Many were worried that amidst the liquidity cris, Genesis was going to dump its GBTC on the market. Ryan Selkis, founder of Masari, brought some calm for GBTC shareholders, saying that it's not possible for DCG and Genesis to sell GBTC because of certain market rules that don't allow them to do so. South Korean authorities seek an arrest warrant for TerraForm Labs co founder Daniel Shin. Yonhab. A South Korean news agency reported that the Seoul Southern District Prosecutor's Office is seeking an arrest warrant for TerraForm Labs Cofounder. Daniel Shin TerraForm Labs is the entity behind the Terra Blockchain, which collapsed in May along with its native tokens.
00:05:52.714 - 00:06:40.758, Speaker A: Luna and UST. Shin, who's no relation of mine, is being accused of allegedly taking illegal profits of around $105,000,000 through sales of Luna before Terra collapsed. In addition, the prosecutor's office issued warrants for three other TerraForm Labs investors and four engineers. The news comes after a prior request to arrest Do Kwan, co founder of the company. Wrapped tokens caused confusion amongst some crypto people. Crypto Twitter is where everything happens, and it can be a great source of information, but this week it certainly went the other direction. Many influencers, such as Eric Wall, Anthony Sassano and Banteg started messing around and saying that Wes, the wrapped token of ether was going to DPEG and that it was insolvent.
00:06:40.758 - 00:07:33.806, Speaker A: This isn't possible since it's a smart contract and barring a hack, it's easy to see at all times that the WETH contract is fully backed. While they meant it as a joke, there were many who misunderstood the message, leading to widespread confusion. Since WETH is such an important backbone of decentralized financial applications, fear spread throughout people who didn't catch the joke. On a related note, Caico, a company that provides data and reports to institutions, published a blog post saying that raft assets were under scrutiny, highlighting WBTC's discount to bitcoin of negative 1.5% days ago. D Five Protocols respond to Market conditions While many centralized companies are suffering from their own mismanagement, decentralized entities have been taking a different approach to go through the current crisis. According to the block, volume on decentralized exchanges soared in November, increasing by 93% from the previous month.
00:07:33.806 - 00:08:27.930, Speaker A: For instance, the Community of DFI protocol Ave, which has a total value locked worth $3.9 billion, decided to freeze 17 tokens on its platform that had low liquidity. The intention, according to the past proposal put forth by risk management firm Gauntlet, is to reduce the risks of the protocol. Moreover, after a governance proposal put forth also by Gauntlet, Compound Finance established a Max borrow cap on ten coins on this platform, meaning it restricted the maximum amount that can be borrowed on those tokens. Gauntlet's Paul Yale wrote, seeing how borrow caps can avoid high risk attack vectors while sacrificing the capital efficiency and allowing for a threshold of organic borrow demand. On a related note, the Community of MakerDAO passed a proposal to increase the savings rate for its stablecoin Dai from 0.1% to 1%, a 100 x increase.
00:08:27.930 - 00:09:19.722, Speaker A: And speaking of decentralized entities, major DFI protocol Uniswap launched an NFT aggregator on its platform. Users can now trade NFTs across major marketplaces like Openc x, two y, two pseudoswap Larva labs and looks rare on the Uniswap platform. With the launch, Uniswap also announced it was airdropping $5 million to early users of Genie, the NFT aggregator platform that Uniswap acquired five months ago. Salana Dex Serum becomes defunct the blockchain that appears to have suffered the most from FTX's meltdown was Salana Serum, a decentralized exchange built on Solana backed by Sam Binkman Fried, said that its mainnet program has become defunct. The project depended on FTX to sign transactions and modify the code. However, community leaders are working on forking the project so that it can serve. The initiative is led by a developer named Max Mango.
00:09:19.722 - 00:10:00.870, Speaker A: Three trading pairs of SRM, the native token of the exchange, were delisted from Crypto Exchange Finance. SRM is down 90% from its alltime highs and is trading at $0.23. Massive layoffs keep hitting the industry Market conditions have been tough both inside and outside the crypto industry. This week, Crypto Exchange Kraken Disclosure, a former sponsor, laid off 30% of its employees. Jesse Powell, cofounder and CEO and recent Unchained guest, said the decision was taken in order to adapt to current market conditions. CoinDesk estimates that over 26,000 people lost their jobs in the industry during the course of 2021. However, 11,000 of that total corresponds to Meta.
00:10:00.870 - 00:10:45.398, Speaker A: Time for fun bits, gabriel Haynes Wants to find SBF Gabriel Haynes, who was on last week's Unchained Black Friday 2022 Edition, has taken on the task of hunting down Sam Binkman Fried in the Bahamas. During this week, he has been posting hilarious videos of his journey in the Caribbean. He shared some footage of his training for Normandy and a video of him doing push ups as they increase investigation effectiveness. According to Gabriel, he even has challenged SCF to a duel. Thanks so much for joining us today. To learn more about Adam, the bankruptcy of BlockFi and the situation with DCG and Genesis, check out the show notes for this episode. Every other week, Unchained hosts a shopping block with crypto insiders.
00:10:45.398 - 00:11:15.860, Speaker A: Haseeb Qureshi, Tom Schmidt, Robert Leschner and Tarun Chitra catch the latest episode on YouTube and on all podcast platforms. Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin with help from Anthony Yoon, Mark Murdoch, Matt Pilchard, Warner Renovich, Sam Sriram, Pamela Jimdar Shashank and CLK. Transcription thanks for listening. Thank you.
