00:00:00.200 - 00:00:24.394, Speaker A: Morning. Good morning, good afternoon. Good evening, everybody. Welcome to week ten of our focus program on analytic function spaces. We start with lectures by Emmanuel Fricanne from University de Lille. He's gonna talk about tto lecture one Emmanuel, please.
00:00:25.174 - 00:01:05.852, Speaker B: Thank you. So, let me thanks. First the organizer, and particularly Shabad, for this nice semester field institute. So, as Shavad said, my lecture will be devoted to fascinating classes of operators. So, the so called truncated Plitz operator, or TTO. So we had in fact already had a mini course on model spaces by steam fan. And last week Bill talked about Tuplitz operator on hardy spaces.
00:01:05.852 - 00:02:59.586, Speaker B: And in fact, we can say that in a sense, the theory of truncated tplitz operator is a mix between these two subjects, because in fact, as we will see, a truncated Tuplitz operator has a compression of Tuplitz operator to model spaces. But though at the first site TtO seems to be close to turblitz operator, in fact we will see there are a lot of difference between these two place classes. And in fact, my lecture will be in fact devoted to some sort of parallel between these two places. So this class of operators, sorry, has been formally introduced by Donald Sarasson in 2007, though some special cases have long ago appeared in the literature, most notably as a model operator for completely non unitary contraction and for their commutants. So this new area of research is now very active, and many open questions posed by Saracen in 2007 have now been solved, but nevertheless are still basic and interesting questions which remain mysterious. I invite young people in the audience to interest in this beautiful subject. So first let me recall some basic notation and definition.
00:02:59.586 - 00:04:14.034, Speaker B: So, as usual, I will denote d the open unidisc of the complex plane, and t will be its boundaries of the United cycle. And as usual, h two will be h two of the unit disk. So, the RD space which consists of space of analytic function whose stellar coefficients are square summable. And in fact, as usual, we will also identify this space of analytic function via radial limit as the closed subspace of function in l two of t with negative Fourier coefficient vanish. So let me maybe recall that h two is what is called the reproducing kernel in birth space. So it means more precisely that if you consider this function, which is the Cauchy kernel, where lambda is in the unit disk. So if you make the scalar product of a function f in h two with this function k lambda, then you recover the value of the function at lambda.
00:04:14.034 - 00:05:11.754, Speaker B: And so the scalar product is given, for instance, by the scalar product in l two of t and I will also use the space h infinity, which is exactly the algebra of analytic and bounded function on z. Now I will recall some basic facts on tuplets operator on h two. So for a function phi in l two of t, I define the tuplets operator t phi f. As you take your function f, you multiply by phi and then you project on h two. So p here is an orthogonal projection from l two one to h two. And so here, since phi is in l two, you obtain just a densely defined operator. So it's well defined for function f in h infinity.
00:05:11.754 - 00:06:03.024, Speaker B: And in fact it extends boundedly on h two if and only if the symbol phi is in l infinity. So this is a result due to Braun and almos, who in fact built the foundation of the world theory of Tuplitz operator in their famous paper in 1963. And in fact, when phi is in l infinity, you can also compute exactly the norm of t phi. This is equal to the l infinity norm of phi. And the I joint of t phi is just the tuplet separator with symbol fiber. So all these things were well explained by Bill last week. So it's just some reminding.
00:06:03.024 - 00:07:12.718, Speaker B: And now I will just give two important examples for us. So the shift operator which corresponds to the symbol z, and it's in fact here, in that case you get, it's just the multiplication by z, in fact, and its I joint is what is called the backward shift operator. And as I explained here, you get the turbulence operator with symbol z bar. And you can see easily that it also expresses using this formula. And in fact, these two operators play a central role in operator theory and analytic function space theory. Okay, so now I will also need the notion of inner function. So let me recall that function theta is called an inner function if theta is in h infinity, which I recall means that theta is bounded and analytic on the unit disk.
00:07:12.718 - 00:08:04.000, Speaker B: And its radial image, which exists almost everywhere, are of modulus one almost everywhere on t. And so I recall you that every inner function theta can be factorized in two parts. In fact, the first part is what is called Blaschko products. This is an infinite product which contain in fact all the zeros of theta. So yeah, you can easily see that this infinite product vanishes on the sequence lambda k. And so that this infinite product converge. You need in fact that what is called the Blaschke condition, which meaning that this series is convergent.
00:08:04.000 - 00:09:17.252, Speaker B: And the second part of theta is what is called a singular inner function, and which exactly means that your function s mu can be expressed in terms of this integral, where mu here is a positive finite Bohel measure on t, which is singular with respect to the Lebeg measure. So sometimes we will use this factorization. This is why I recall it. Okay, so now let me go to model spaces. So given an inner function theta, we can associate what is called the model spaces k theta, which is defined as a complement, the orthogonal complement of theta h two in h two. So it, it means that you take all function in h two which are orthogonal to theta g, where g runs over h two. And in fact, it's quite easy to see that it's also equal to the intersection of h two with theta z bar h two bar.
00:09:17.252 - 00:10:26.164, Speaker B: So maybe I just can just explain why this is just an easy fact. Because if phi is in saying that phi is f is in k theta. Sorry, it means that phi f is in h two and theta bar f is orthogonal to h two. Using this, because theta is of modulus one, almost every one t. And so it means that equivalent to say that f is in h two and theta bar f belongs to z bar h two bars. And then using one more time, that theta is of modulus one on the united cycle, you get that f is in h two and f is in, this is in theta z bar h two bar. So in fact, this definition will be important when we will need to generalize k theta in a Banach space setting.
00:10:26.164 - 00:11:30.224, Speaker B: So k theta is called the model space. We will see in a moment why. But let me note that, of course you can easily see that theta h two is invariant with respect to the shift operator. So if you apply the shift operator to theta h two, you will be in theta h two. And so this implies that the orthogonal complement of theta h two will be invariant with respect to the I joint. And in fact, Berlin, in a famous paper proved the converse in some sense. So, which means that every closed subspace of h two which are invariant with respect to the backward shift operator to the operator s star are of the form k theta, where theta is some inner function.
00:11:30.224 - 00:12:32.374, Speaker B: So this model space is in fact described on all the lattice of invariant subspace of s star. Okay, now I can give the definition of our main object. So the truncated tpitz operator. So given an inner function theta and the function phi in l two, the truncated t operator or tto is denoted by a phi or a, if we want to emphasize on the space where it acts. So it's a densely defined operator whose domain contain, in fact k theta intersect h infinity. And on this space, it acts with the following formula. So you take your function f, you multiply by five and you project on k theta.
00:12:32.374 - 00:14:12.554, Speaker B: So here theta is the orthogonal projection from l two on two k theta. And of course if you want you can put here the projection on h two and you get that it's also equal to p theta tf tf t five f. Okay, so I said that it's a densely defined operator because in fact it's easy to see that k theta intersect with h infinity is dense in k because it contains all the reproducing kernel k lambda theta of k theta which are given by this formula. And in fact this formula of course are in k theta because they are, in fact they are reproducing kernel of, of k theta and in fact they are also in h infinity because it's easy to see that denominator is bonded away from zero. And so k lambda theta belongs to h infinity. And of course they span a dense set in k theta because if you have a function f in k theta which is orthogonal to all reproducing kernels, of course it will be identically zero. And so this space is dense.
00:14:12.554 - 00:15:24.838, Speaker B: And so you get a densely defined operator. And in fact I will be interested in the in zeus operator which extends in fact bondedly on kta and I will denote this space as tau theta. So tau theta will be the truncated turpitz operator which can be extended bondedly on KCD. Okay, so now let me give some simple examples. So the first example is when you assume that your symbol phi belongs to l infinity, then in that case it's easy to see that phi f will be in l two for all f in k theta. And so when you look at the p theta, phi f. Of course since p theta is an orthogonal projection, you can bond these terms with the l two norm of phi f.
00:15:24.838 - 00:16:13.534, Speaker B: And since f is in l infinity, this is bonded by the l infinity norm of phi times. So l two norm of f. And so it exactly means that a phi is bonded on k theta. So you get a bonded operator on k theta and its norm is less or equal to the norm of phi infinity. But be careful, contrary to the case of tuplitz operator, so I remind you that for Tuplitz operator the norm of t phi is exactly equal to the infinity norm of the symbol. Yes, we will see that it's not true. In general, you just have this in fact inequality.
00:16:13.534 - 00:17:15.724, Speaker B: And in fact you can get some example where the norm of f a phi will be zero. In fact the operator will be zero even with a symbol phi, not zero. So you can have a strict inequality here. So the second example I would like to give is when phi is equal to z. So this is just particular case of first example. And here the truncated tuplet separator associated to this circuit, we will be, we will denote it by s theta, and it's, it is called the model operator on k theta. We will see in a moment why, but it's a very important operator, it will play, plays a special role in the theory.
00:17:15.724 - 00:17:55.294, Speaker B: So another simple example is example related to Turpit's matrices. So let me start with this simple inner function. So theta z is zm. So it's of course an inner function, sorry. And so in that case k theta. It's easy to see that it coincide. It corresponds exactly to the set of polynomials of degree less or equal to n minus one.
00:17:55.294 - 00:19:34.524, Speaker B: And now if I start, so it's in particular a finite space, finite dimensional space. So now if I start with a function phi in L two, and I looked at this scalar product, a phi zj against zk. So I rewrite the definition of a phi. Here I can suppress the orthogonal projection on k theta because zk is in k theta is already in k theta because k is less or equal to n minus one. And then I put that terms here. So I get the scalar product with phi against z k minus g, which is exactly in fact the Fourier coefficient of phi, the k minus g, hence coefficient Fourier coefficient of phi. And in particular, you see that if you look at, right at the matrix, a phi with respect to this orthonormal basis, you get exactly a tuplets matrices, right? So it's constant against this diagonal.
00:19:34.524 - 00:20:46.020, Speaker B: And so the matrix representation of a phi with respect to this autonomous basis, one z minus z n minus one, is a tuplets matrix. And conversely, it's easy to see that any n by n tuplets matrix in fact gives rise to a truncated tuplets operator on KZN. So in some sense, truncated tuplitz operator can be viewed view as a generalization of tuplitz matrices. Okay, so this is some nice example. And now I will go on with some basic remarks. So the first remark I would like to say is the following. So if you have a function phi in L two, which gives rise to a bonded truncated tuplets operator a five, then in fact the inside joint will be also a truncated tuplet separator, and the symbol of this truncate of the agent of the truncated tuplet separator.
00:20:46.020 - 00:21:55.634, Speaker B: A phi is a truncated tuplet operator with symbol fiber. So maybe I can just explain the proof because it's very easy. So you start with two function f and g in case theta intersect with h infinity. And you look at the scalar product with f between f and a five star g. So of course by definition it's a phi f g. And so it's an orthogonal projection on k theta of phi f against g. And since g is in k theta, you can remove the orthogonal projection here on kc times phi f g, which is also equal to f g.
00:21:55.634 - 00:23:11.754, Speaker B: And here you can put again the orthogonal projection on k theta and it gives you exactly that. This function is equal to this function and so it gives you exactly because of course here it's fiber g. Okay, so, so the I joint of a bonded tto is itself a tto. So maybe let me focus on another example. So when phi is in l infinity is in h infinity, sorry. So analytic and bounded. So as I said for the shift, but it's also true for any tuplets operator with analytic symbol theta h two is invariant with respect to t phi, because here in that case, since phi is analytic, t phi is just the multiplication by phi.
00:23:11.754 - 00:24:17.354, Speaker B: So theta h two is invariant with respect to t phi. And so it's a general principle, its orthogonal complement k theta will be invariant with respect to the I joint of phi. And we have that the adjoint of t phi is t phi bar. And so it means that the adjoint of a truncated turitz operator a phi with symbol phi in h infinity is just a restriction of t phi bar on two on, on k theta. So you don't need to put the orthogonal projection on k theta because if you start with a function f in k theta t phi bar f will still will be in k theta. So no need to put a orthogonal projection on k theta in that case. And in particular, so I remind you that the s theta is just a z.
00:24:17.354 - 00:25:30.854, Speaker B: And so the eye joint of this model operator STTA is just a restriction of the backward shift operator on k theta. Okay, so another easy fact to notice is that in fact the space bounded truncated tuplitz operator in fact forms a linear space. This is because it's some algebraic simple computation. In fact you can easily check that. If you start with alpha beta two complex number and phi and psi in l two and you look at alpha a phi plus beta a psi, then it's equal to a with symbol alpha Phi beta psi. So it's exactly said that it's a linear space. But be careful, it's not an algebra in general.
00:25:30.854 - 00:26:26.506, Speaker B: In fact what you have is. Maybe I can just add this. In that case where the symbol is in h infinity or the two symbol is in h infinity, then it will be an algebra in fact. Thank you. In that case you have this in fact, but this is more or less your not, this is not true. But this is a simple case where you have this. But in general the product of two truncated plates operator is not a truncated pleats operator.
00:26:26.506 - 00:27:49.686, Speaker B: In fact, Saracen in his paper in 2007 gives this simple example, not so simple to prove, but there are some arguments and computation. But at least it's a rank rank two operator defined by this formula. And if you start with an inner function such that it's associated model space as dimension greater than three, then you can prove that this operator is a truncated turquoise operator. But if you look at its square it will be not a truncated Turkitz operator. Okay, so an exercise but not, not so easy in fact, but the details are in the paper of Samuelson. So highlight the detail. Okay, so in fact one of the main difficulty, but also in fact the richness of the theory is the fact that in fact in the theory of Tto, the symbol of a Tto is in general not unique.
00:27:49.686 - 00:28:45.110, Speaker B: And this is what in a sense the main reason why the theory of Tto differ so much from the theory of Tuplitz operator. Because okay, for Tuplitz operator the symbol is unique. But, but for tto this is not the case. And I can explain at least one, one direction. I mean explain why this is the case. So if you start with a symbol phi in l two and you consider two functions, psi one and psi two in h two, then if I take a function f in k theta intersect with h infinity, it sees. So the truncated tuplets operator with this symbol apply to f is exactly this.
00:28:45.110 - 00:29:55.602, Speaker B: I just write the definition and now observe that this function theta psi one f is in fact is theta h two because psi one is in h two, f is in h infinity. So this product psi one f is in h two and so this will be theta h two. And so when I project onto k theta, which is the orthogonal complement of theta h two in h two I will get zero. And now using the second equivalent definition of k theta, I can also see that this part will be in z bar h two bar. And so the projection of this function on k theta will also give zero. And so in fact you get exactly that. This function is, you can forget this term, this terms, because they give zero and you just obtain that it's equal to p theta phi f.
00:29:55.602 - 00:31:24.004, Speaker B: And it's which says exactly that a five f. And so in other words, it means that these two truncated operator are the same. And so you see that you have a lot of liberty of symbol, because you can add, you can take any function psi one and psi two, and it will give you the same truncated tuplitz operator. And in fact, Sarason proves in some sense the converse and identified exactly the class of symbol for a given tto. And more precisely, he proves that given an inner function theta and the symbol phi in l two, then the truncated Turklet separator a phi is identically zero if and only if the symbol phi is in that space theta h two plus theta h two bar. And so consequently, two truncated turbid separator a five one and a phi two will coincide if and only if the difference of their symbols are in the space. So I prove one direction, and for the other direction I.
00:31:24.004 - 00:32:31.050, Speaker B: Okay, I refer to the paper of Sarasota. So we see that given a tto, we have the class of possible symbol is huge. But nevertheless, Saracen also proves that there is a canonical way of writing the symbols of the, which then gives some unicity. And more precisely, we get the following corollary. So, given a phi in l two, then there exists a pair of functions, phi one and phi two in k theta, such that the truncated Turklitz operator a phi is equal to a phi one phi bar. And in fact, if you fix the value of phi one or phi two at zero gene, then this representation would be unique. So, for instance, you can assume that phi one of or phi two would be zero at the origin.
00:32:31.050 - 00:34:07.860, Speaker B: And then you get a unique representation with conditions at phi one and phi two are in k theta, and for instance, phi two of zero is zero. Okay, so maybe let me give an example of such a presentation. So I come back to tuplets matrices. So I start with the tuplets matrices a of three by three matrices. And I recall you that when theta z is three, then k theta will be the polynomial of degree less or equal to two. Then if you consider this symbol phi e the bar square to the power two plus dz bar plus a plus bz to the power two, then in fact, it's easy to see that in that case, a five coincide with this representation in the orthogonal basis one z two. And in fact, it's easy to see that, of course, you can decompose five as psi plus psi bar, where phi and psi are in k theta and defined like this, it's polynomials of the grid s are equal to two.
00:34:07.860 - 00:34:58.204, Speaker B: So the r in k theta and the sum of these two functions exactly give you, give you five. Okay, so maybe now an important question. Of course we may wonder why studying tto. So one reason is because it's fun. But maybe it's not a very serious reason, at least if you want to convince someone not in the area. But okay, there are some, maybe more serious reasons. So the first reason is, as I said, it can be viewed as a generalization of tuplitz matrices.
00:34:58.204 - 00:36:13.944, Speaker B: So this is the first reason. Second reason, in fact, they appear in model theory of Nag Fourier. So now I will explain a little bit why the operator we already meet and which appears as a particular case of a truncated concrete separator, why it is called the model operator. So in fact, Nag and Foyash proves the following beautiful theorem saying that if you start with an Hilbert space contraction t, so, so contraction from h to h, where h is some in birth space, and you assume three things. The first things you assume that t star n converges to zero for the strong operators topology. And second things you assume that what is called. So you assume that these two operator identity minus t star t and identity minus t t r of one.
00:36:13.944 - 00:37:11.214, Speaker B: Then you can prove that there exists an inner function theta such that t is unitally equivalent to s theta. So in some sense, s theta can serve as a model for a large class of Hilbert space contraction. And okay, the advantage of this is, okay, an Elbert space contraction is, can be very difficult object. And, but s theta, okay, is a more simple operator. But okay, the problem, life is not easy. I mean the problem of course is not the operator, but rather the space. In fact, because caseta has a difficult structure.
00:37:11.214 - 00:38:43.486, Speaker B: And in fact, okay, you gain something from the point of view of operator theory. But there are still some difficulties. And I mean, using this model operator and this model theory of nag four yash, you can get a lot of in fact interesting results. Okay, and so maybe I will try now to explain you maybe an other reason of studying tto, which comes in fact from also an interesting problem concerning some interpolation problem based on the commutant of stage. This interpolation problem was discovered by Sarason a long time ago now. And in fact, let me mention in fact that it's very easy. In fact, it's a consequence of what I said before.
00:38:43.486 - 00:39:34.814, Speaker B: So if you have a symbol phi in h infinity. It's easy to see that it's commute with the model operator S theta. So a phi s theta is equal to sti phi. But be careful, it's true because phi is in h infinity. If it's not analytics, then it would be not true in general. So you have this commutation relation, and in fact, what Savason proves is that the converse is true. So if you have a bonded operator in k theta a, and if you assume that it commute with S theta, then it will be of the form a phi for a symbol for a function phi in h infinity.
00:39:34.814 - 00:40:44.914, Speaker B: And also you can recover the norm of a as in the of the h infinity norm of phi for all, taking the infinum on the class of all symbol in h infinity, and this infinum is in fact attained. So you can find a function phi in h infinity such that you will have exactly the equality between the norm of a and the h infinity normal phi. So this is what is called now commuting lifting.com and I will just explain you as it can serve to solve classical problem in interpolation theory. So the nevermind epic interpolation problem. So I recall you that the nevadinapic interpolation problem is the following. So you start with n disting point in d, lambda one lambda two, lambda n, and n value omega one omega two omega n in c.
00:40:44.914 - 00:41:34.304, Speaker B: And the question, or the problem is the following. Can you find a function f in h infinity which interpolate the data so such that for any k between one and n f lambda k is equal to to omega k with a control of the norm. So for instance, you impose that each infinite norm will be less or equal to one. Of course, if you forget this control, the problem is very easy. You can interpolate with even a polynomial. But the problem is that you want also to control the norm by one. And in fact, what Nevan lina proved is that this problem has a solution if and only if the matrix, this matrix q is non negative.
00:41:34.304 - 00:42:51.956, Speaker B: Okay, so I will explain you a little bit the proof and how the truncated tuplets operator are involved in that problem. So the first basic observation is the following. So if you have a function phi in h infinity, sorry. In fact, the Cauchy kernel k lambda are eigen eigenvectors for t phi bar for the adjoint of t five. So you have this formula. If you have attended to the lecture of dan on the branch of Niagara spaces, he uses a lot this nice formula. So now I will introduce the finite blaschko product associated to the n point on d lambda one lambda two lambda n.
00:42:51.956 - 00:44:42.744, Speaker B: And in that case the associated model space kb is just generated by the Cauchy kernel k lambda one, k lambda two k lambda I will introduce also the operator r on kb, just on the on the basis, in fact, so asking that r k lambda I is equal to omega I bar k lambda a. So I take in fact the diagonal operator with respect to this basis, where the value and the diagonal are given by this value omega 1 bar omega two bar omega bar. And I remind you that the I joint of model operator sb is just the restriction of tz bar or restriction of the backward shift operator on cable. And now using two, we easily see that rsb star applied to k lambda I is just lambda I bar I. And using the definition of r, you get this, this one. And of course you can reverse the computation and you get that it's also equal to s b star r k lambda I. And since k lambda I generate the model of space kb, in fact, you deduce that this formula so r commute with Sb star.
00:44:42.744 - 00:45:57.614, Speaker B: And now using the commutant lifting theorem, in fact it means that this r is exactly the eye joint of some truncated toplitz operator of the adjunct of some truncated topics operator with a symbol phi in h infinity. So in fact r is a phi bar for some phi in h infinity. And in fact, as I said in the theorem of Saracen, you can also obtain the norm of the of the operator which commute with sb star or sb. And you can find a function symbol phi such that its h infinity norm will give you exactly the norm of r. So first observe that, of course, if you look at omega I bar k lambda I, it's archaic lambda I. So it's a phi bar k lambda I. And since in that case phi is in h infinity, this is just the restriction of t phi bar to kb.
00:45:57.614 - 00:47:20.850, Speaker B: And using one more time the same formula, it will give you phi lambda I bar k lambda. And so you see that you have solved this interpolation problem. So you find the function phi in h infinity such that phi lambda is equal to omega to omega I for any I between one and n. And the only problem is the constraints on the norm. And now there is an easy computation. I will give later details, saying that if you look at I minus r star r against applied to this function against the same, you get exactly in fact the action of the of the matrix which appears in the theorem against the sequence a one a two an scalar product with the same and in fact it says exactly that these matrices will be non negative if and only if this operator will be non negative. And this is equivalent, of course, to say that the operator r is a contraction.
00:47:20.850 - 00:48:44.704, Speaker B: And of course, since r, since phi, sorry, is chosen so that the h infinity norm of phi is equal to the operating operator norm of r, it gives you exactly that h infinity norm is less or equal to one. It is equivalent to say that matrix q is non negative and you are done. So this explains the role, in fact of particular case of truncated turpit operator in this interpolation problem. And of course, there are some other example where this approach using commutant lifting.com is useful to solve some other interpolation problem. Okay, so I hope I convince you that truncated plates operators are worth studying, and I hope that you will come back to the other lecture tomorrow and in two days. And in fact, in this next lecture I will study some more concrete properties of truncated toplitz operator.
00:48:44.704 - 00:50:26.172, Speaker B: For instance, we will study when this concrete toplix operator are finite, some result on the spectrum, and so on and so on. And I just stopped with some references where you can find what I discuss and many more properties so, concerning classical Tuplitz operators. So I invite you, of course to look at the paper of born and almos, who, as I said, built the whole theory of Tuplitz operator as an introduction on truncated principator. So there is the paper of Sara son, who really built the whole theory of this beautiful class of painter. And you can find also a nice introduction in sorry, I didn't find the term in English in this beautiful survey of Garcia and Ross. And also there is in the book of Ross devoted to the model operator, there is a nice chapter devoted to TTO. And so you can find a lot of results in that direction.
00:50:26.172 - 00:50:29.024, Speaker B: So I thank you for your attention.
00:50:30.484 - 00:50:49.112, Speaker A: Thank you indeed. Just wonderful, wonderful talk. Any question or comment for Emmanuel? Marco asked a question in the chat. Do you see the chat Emmanuel?
00:50:49.248 - 00:51:47.764, Speaker B: Yes. Okay, so more or less explicit, in fact, the inner tension, in fact. Okay, first let me maybe say that in fact you can have a more general result. In fact, I just put a version of their, of their result. But in fact you can get a result for getting in fact this condition that the rank are rank one. But then you have to deal with in fact a version of model space which are vector valued and more, more difficult. But, but in fact, here a Sort of EXplicit formula for tHeta.
00:51:47.764 - 00:52:36.418, Speaker B: And in fact, theta is what is called the characteristic function of contraction t. So there is a formula. But, but of course it's not completely easy to if you give me a contraction, I cannot promise you that I can compute Explicitly the functions tHeta. In some case you can. For instance, I think B. Lex, give us an example where you can get a formula in the context of Volterra operator. I think there are some operator where you can have some explicit computation.
00:52:36.418 - 00:52:38.174, Speaker B: But yeah.
00:52:42.434 - 00:52:52.134, Speaker C: By the way, I'm not going to take credit for the what MAnu just mentioned. It's actually Saracen did that. He explicitly. But yeah.
00:52:54.314 - 00:52:58.114, Speaker A: Okay, you mean the example you provided?
00:52:59.334 - 00:53:10.434, Speaker C: Well, the one where you could have the Volterra operator and you could show that you can compute theta and things like that? Saracen actually did that?
00:53:12.054 - 00:53:22.054, Speaker A: Sure. Any further question or comments? If not, let's thank Emmanuel again.
