00:00:00.320 - 00:00:48.590, Speaker A: Good morning. My name is Paul. Originally also, I just thought I write a little bit. I just gave some earlier this week because I heard a lot to talk about shape traction change about me, I decided to put a grain of box on here a little bit about myself. My name is Bo, I'm a technical, we're reading. I'm a c two here in l two who's as adult with positive k and olga stem. So I think general sentiment that I've been hearing from a lot of folks is that chain of traction will solve what math sweat three, adoption.
00:00:48.590 - 00:01:40.780, Speaker A: And I wanted to dig into that and understand better. Is this the case? Will better chain of traction bring in mass user adoption? So I have a few statements, I'm going to go through them and we're going to review whether or not the statements make sense in the context of the real world as the limiting factors for widespread adoptions. The first statement that I've heard a lot is that users shouldn't need to know which chain they're on, and this is a very common notion. So I have a question for those in the audience. How many of you guys use one or more streaming services? How many of you guys use two or more? Three or more? Four or more? Five or more? I use five or more personally because I watch anime, I watch sports, I watch a lot of tv shows, maybe some smaller tv shows. So I end up using a million apps. It's highly, highly fragmented.
00:01:40.780 - 00:02:28.070, Speaker A: And this fragmentation is actually very similar to the fragmentation on the blockchain side. A number of different users use multiple blockchains as well. But on the other hand, in streaming services, we have worldwide adoption of over 2.3 billion users, estimated this is a quarter of the world's population. Blockchain number has far less than that number. What does a chain of traffic ux look like in a streaming set? If you look on your cell phone and you ask Siri playing Guardians of the Galaxy, you'll see that it will take near to Apple TV and then you're going to be asked to pay $20 in gas fees in order to buy the booking. Throughout this whole process, you are acutely aware of which application you're on.
00:02:28.070 - 00:03:00.450, Speaker A: This fragmentation extends to other application categories as well. Live handling applications also have the same level of fragmentation. We have ride hailing applications that are applied to specific geographies. We have multiple ride value applications per geography. I live in the US and I generally pull out both Uber and Lynx connection. Fair price across both before manually selecting the best route. This is not so dissimilar from checking multiple chains, defined as price and liquidity for a particular token.
00:03:00.450 - 00:03:36.570, Speaker A: Additionally, these applications can somewhat represent chains. We think of them as chains, we defeat them as the launch chain. Abstracted and distracted, the UX has not stopped widespread adoption of white hailing applications. There's an estimating 300 billion people's wide applications globally. But this is not to say that there are examples of chain extraction in the real world, in the east or east either. Popular apps like WeChat, Bingrav that abstract over many internal applications. For example, WeChat has overdose five native applications and 3.7
00:03:36.570 - 00:04:43.530, Speaker A: million mini applications within this platform. Apps like WeChat or super apps at WeChat give us some insight into what a chain of structured web Breamox could look like in the future. So another statement that I've heard often is that users shouldn't need a wallet on every chain. But what does this wallet ux look like in real life? In real life, if you think about chains as countries now you see that users have to have wallet or an account or bank account in multiple chains or multiple countries in order to have local liquidity. If you don't have local liquidity when you're traveling, you whip out your debit card and go to an ATM machine and take out cash via cross chain transfer for a fee. Additionally, you can whip up your credit card and use your credit card to pay for good or service. In this case, the merchant provides gas payment sponsorship on behalf of the user or the merchant will up the price of the credit service to include the cost of gas payments on behalf of the user.
00:04:43.530 - 00:05:46.664, Speaker A: Another notion that I've heard is that users should be able to express an intent and have it magically fulfilled. On this point, I've included an intent to know me in a future distant, far distant future. We're normally sustained while humans sit in a wheelchair and are able to express intents and have psychically and have them magically fulfill. Unfortunately, we're not in that future. The current role today looks quite complex for even the most mundane of tasks. For example, if I want to book a trip, I may start the process or start the user journey on an app like Instagram, where I'm inspired by some reels of a foreign beautiful place and then I follow that up by looking for flights, looking for a hotel, and then also planning activities. This basically mobile applications and this user journey user flow is a white fragmented or I can express a user intent to book a trip for travel agent.
00:05:46.664 - 00:06:32.214, Speaker A: The travel agent then bans the books entire strip formula, in this case the user expressing their intents and preferences list to the travel agent. The travel agent then becomes a solver. However, solving isn't free. Solving comes with a feed, and if you think about it, the increasingly complexive task is the increasingly intelligent or autonomous. The solver needs to be an increasingly expensive the fees will be as well. And in a very macro and abstract sense, this is how the labor market works. So what we've seen more about these slides that perhaps change traction isn't the limiting factor.
00:06:32.214 - 00:07:43.786, Speaker A: By what criteria adoption the world role in this highly, highly recognized applications living in the world have not been limited in the number of users they've enabled to reach. The problem from my perspective is that we need novel applications. I feel like we're stuck in a virtuous cycle of existing devi applications from chain to chain with minimal modifications and minor changes in mechanism and gamma configuration. The important issue to this is that there are only a certain number of users that actually want to be on chain every day utilizing these sponsoring devices, and a large number of those users are airsoft partners, liquidity miners, bots and so on. And actually if we increase chain extraction, they were only making the lives of these farmers bots better versus real users. And this one makes the mainstream adoption. We need great tools to build great applications, and a great tool from my perspective is the Cosmos SDK.
00:07:43.786 - 00:09:00.920, Speaker A: Many of the L2 frameworks on Ethereum are generalized frameworks for deploying a generalized EDM with minimal accessibility. And what I mean by this is in order to express complex logic, you might have to do custom work because SDK allows developers to have a suite of office shelf modules and a framework around which you can inject your custom logic and make the have accessibility that you need in a structured way. We built a framework at polymer cloud monitor. Monomer enables the osmosis SDK roll ups to be deployed on the theory and the way it works is monitor since been a sandwich between the OpsAT and the cognitive specific translating between engine, API and ABCI. Following I talked a lot about chain extraction and how chain extraction is necessary to achieve widespread adoption and how the real world is how to fragment it. However, we have the opportunity to fundamentally re go how the world works. I think this opportunity is best due to the lens of implausibility versus solver autonomy.
00:09:00.920 - 00:10:14.592, Speaker A: And what I mean by this is if you look at how fragmented the real world is, the requirements for the solver in terms of autonomy and intelligence were quite high and oftentimes the human solver is why I however, with increasing posability we can decrease these software requirements. Solvers in web3 on the other hand, are able to become much simpler and have far less fees than their web3 counterparts. But the core issue here is that web3 applications have great composability on SQL chain or poor composability across chains. Polybridge helps solve clock chain proposability by standardizing the calling interface between chains via IBC or intra blockchain communication protocol. Datalog is a fundamental building block for chain extraction. Chains need to be able to communicate safely and reliably to each other. In the diagram above, a number of polymer clouds connect to each other, establishing a mesh, creating an IBC or standard IBC network between layer tubes and layer threes on Ethereum.
00:10:14.592 - 00:11:26.762, Speaker A: So while the architecture of these roll ups on Ethereum will continue to diverge, IBC will remain a common thread across minute. By increasing compulsability and decreasing solver requirements, we can build a world that has better ux for everyone at very low fees and cost to the user. Let's build towards a world where we have Internet connectivity and vm. We have some links out there for Falconer and thank you. Yeah, I mean like I mentioned before, I think at the moment because of the only major use cases within the system, change doesn't actually benefit real users. Exactly that the user numbers are inflated. And I think a lot of user numbers are not actually real users.
00:11:26.762 - 00:11:56.974, Speaker A: These are industrial farmers. You see that with the air vodka statistics, surveillance, lower calls. So he's had crazy usage numbers and this crazy drops. So that's the situation is that just making their lives easy. We're going to have much better drugs for airdrop farmers. Airdrop farmers will love to interact. I think in the long term, yes, I think the long term by side of all software autonomy and possibility.
00:11:56.974 - 00:12:51.100, Speaker A: I think launcher, once we actually have those novel applications and where we have microphones, that's when we can implement these very simple solvers. For example, if you needed a human to do working on your behalf, maybe that be solved with doesn't need to cross the AGI line for giving the AI. Maybe a simpler algorithm where you can have some references that you can put into it and it just figures out some launches agreement takes place in travel agent. So I think it reduces developer if it takes time and resources and training these AI models. So I think that's like from the future I see the lines like this. I didn't talk about AI talk, but I think like the AI is like a line going up. So I was like AI becomes smarter over time and as composability increases as well, there's an interception point where they have a very, very big ux for the regular user, assuming that there's all sorts of not wide variation.
00:12:51.100 - 00:13:33.402, Speaker A: So you mentioned that specific. Yes. Can you say a little bit borrow? I don't know how technically you might know, but a little bit borrowing? Yeah, I'll give you one. I'll give you one very specific example. So let's say you want to have a chain and you want to solve for congestion. Maintaining a chain faster increasing bandwidth or throughput will not make sense that throughput will get thrown out bumps at some point. The programmatic users will always be faster than the human users.
00:13:33.402 - 00:14:37.550, Speaker A: So then the question is, how do I make it so that I have a guarantee good user experience for the actual human user? It may be there, you can say, well, on Ethereum one, we take the cause of senate, we'll take skips SDK, we'll take the world coin, l two, or world share. We'll put the world chain zero two up to an equal lane, but then the skip block sink in for humans. We'll say that through this lane only Ky score, only digitally identified humans will be able to access this lane at some rate of name. Then they have a bot lane where the pricing is different, accumulate from a cheaper, and actually the bot lane can subsidize the cost of the human lane to the point where the human lane can be completely gas subsidized. So it's free for users, but you have to pay if you want to do matter of or you cashing off the system. So do we need now a wallet for every change? I'm not convinced that we need a wallet. I think.
00:14:37.550 - 00:15:17.720, Speaker A: I think the interesting thing, like cross chain, like invent based protocols may be able to solve that. In the meantime, there's a lot of teams working on that. I actually think that the reason people need blocks in multiple chains is like they're using the same application, so they're kind of like using the same applications. You're leaving moving chains in order to farm, mostly. So unless we have more like novel app system roll ups, maybe there's like a single wallet chain, maybe cap chain. I think that Al talks about Keystore roll ups on Ethereum. So maybe you have like a single like account chain and being with ICA or Keystore roll ups, you've got all these like some accounts, and then you just do what you need to do.
00:15:17.720 - 00:16:00.662, Speaker A: But of course, my favorite wasn't to say that chain traction isn't needed at all. It was just to say that like that's not looming back your toolbox for launching. I'm curious, how do you think about stablecoins? Because in my opinion stablecoins are one the only killer more use cases they're having for the breakdown. And they are obviously fragmented across different chains of abstraction just using stable points. Yeah, well, basically centralization. Yeah, for several points. I'm not as worried about centralization.
00:16:00.662 - 00:16:54.046, Speaker A: I think you will have interesting seasonal points that don't completely change in our funding scheme. But it's very important to stop a bank run as we saw. I think about stable points with respect to one is transferring between peers, transfers and true offerings. So my understanding is that if this thing has seen the circle and so comes out the back, you can stress your character here so you can solve a big problem that break or maybe with some other problems. That money in the road rule, whether that's through some bank bar, whether that's through taking that one thing out. I'm not sure if there will be a single chain where it certainly sells without an offering. They serve a wall like board with a bunch of markers to solve this problem.
00:16:54.046 - 00:17:11.910, Speaker A: So maybe we might be solving centralized front or maybe we solve the offerings directly from blockchains, PDP across users name six and transfer protocol between chains. I'm not sure what it's going to ultimately happen, but I think you've got to solve both of these.
