00:00:00.560 - 00:00:26.610, Speaker A: Hello everyone, and welcome to another episode of the Daily Way Refuel, where I recap the latest news in the Ethereum ecosystem. I'm your host Anthony Cisano and today's the 12 April 2021. Alright everyone, big weekend, big lot of stuff to get through. Before I do that, I just wanted to give a quick shout out here to bankless. I filled in for Ryan Sean Adams on Bankless weekly roll up kind of podcast video last week. So if you want to check that out, I'll link this in the YouTube description. I was pretty fun.
00:00:26.610 - 00:00:57.574, Speaker A: It's about 90 minutes of David and I just talking about what happened in the previous week in crypto in general, not just Ethereum. So yeah, it was, it was a really fun kind of thing here and I, and I thank the bankless guys for having me on there. And yeah, as I said, you can go check this out in the YouTube description. So a new all time high for ETH. I think we had two since the last time I kind of did the refuel, if I, if I'm remembering correctly. So the new all time high I think is 21 99 on the dot there. That's what I saw on Coinbase pro.
00:00:57.574 - 00:01:50.952, Speaker A: And you know, I guess at this point it's just kind of like, okay, well cool, you know, another all time high and then it, you know, ETH likes to do this thing where it gets to all time high and then just dumps off it, right? Doesn't, doesn't keep going, it just like dumps below it. And that's just kind of how it's always kind of been, or at least as far as I can remember being, you know, over the last few months, which is fine, I think. And obviously the market is very hot in general right now. It's really funny because when you actually look at the wider market and what, what is hot and what's not right now, the ETH kind of, I guess market is kind of quiet right now, right? Like not just ETH the asset, but like the ethereum ecosystem itself. Like it's really wild to see the Ethereum based DeFi projects. Their tokens have just been quite, you know, trending quite sideways or down for, I guess, the last couple of months. And then you look at the wider ecosystem and you see like just all these things kind of just like going up ridiculous amounts in value and it's, it's crazy.
00:01:50.952 - 00:02:23.758, Speaker A: And, you know, I really think that, you know, when you, when you kind of look at this stuff, it's always, it's always funny because I've written about this before in the newsletter. Basically there's this thing that I call a sentiment pendulum, where the pendulum will kind of like swing, you know, it'll swing like back and forth, you know, from time to time. But in crypto, you see this play out in the markets a lot. A lot where, you know, one sector of the market will be kind of like, you know, trending sideways or going down or something and everyone will be like, oh, you know, it's dead. You know, it's going to, it's going to zero. Like it's finished, right? Like, I got to sell now. I've got to get out of this position.
00:02:23.758 - 00:02:59.830, Speaker A: And we saw this play out after Defi summer last year, if you remember. You know, even Wifi went down from like, whatever it was, forty five k to like seven k in like a month, right? And then it just reversed immediately from when it got to seven k and it like, went up to I think, maybe 20k or something in like a couple of days. So the markets are very hot, very frothy. And now I think we're seeing that play out with kind of these other things. Obviously, there's a new, there's a lot of retail investors coming in, right? Their kind of first exposure to this space, or at least not just retail users, but new users in general. Their first kind of exposure is centralized exchanges. Right.
00:02:59.830 - 00:03:31.720, Speaker A: So, you know, obviously coinbase is the largest in the US and a lot of people are kind of going on there. But I think binance has a pretty good kind of coverage now of, of different countries. Obviously, they've blocked out the US because of the fact that, you know, they're not allowed to service us customers. They have binance us, which the volumes are okay, but they're nothing kind of like special. I was looking at it last night. I think they do like $600 million a 24 hours volume. And for reference, I'm pretty sure the normal binance site does tens of billions of dollars of 24 hours volume last time I checked.
00:03:31.720 - 00:04:03.100, Speaker A: So yeah, it's a pretty big kind of discrepancy there. But if we kind of look at like all the, I guess, tokens that have been going up a lot in value, it's just wild to see like, a lot of them are just these tokens that haven't hit their all time highs yet. And they're from like the 2017 era of coins. A lot of them are dead projects and just have been just around as what people like to call like zombie projects for quite a while now. But they're going up because there's just so much froth in the markets. Right. So, of course, you know, I mean, ethy is still going up and it's still hitting all new, all time highs, but it's not like going up a lot.
00:04:03.100 - 00:04:41.778, Speaker A: For example, it's not like, you know, posting 100% gains in like a week sort of thing, whereas a lot of these other things kind of are. And yeah, I just think it's a function of like that, that pendulum, the pendulum's kind of swung to these kind of like, you know, other things that, that are just going up a lot in value. And I do believe that it's going to swing back eventually and it's going to catch people off guard, of course. Like, there's a lot of people who, you know, like to trade these markets and they get kind of caught off guard. They're like, oh, you know, and they chase like, pumps and things like that. And that's why, you know, over the long term, a lot of people that trade end up worse off than they would have just holding, you know, either like, I guess, BTC or ETH, for example. So from that perspective, I fully expect that to happen again.
00:04:41.778 - 00:05:29.974, Speaker A: And, you know, I've been seeing lately on Twitter just all these people saying, you know, it's going to get flipped by, you know, bnb, and ethereum is going to die, ethereum's dead, it has so much competition, blah, blah. And usually when I see those sorts of things, you know, I kind of look at it, I'm like, okay, well, people are getting too cocky now, and the market hates cockiness. I don't know if all of you have noticed, but, you know, for all of my times being in crypto, whenever any kind of, like, community gets really cocky, it ends badly for them. It always does. Like, look at what happened the other day when, you know, the bitcoin maximalists had that clubhouse room where they say they were celebrating that the ETH BTC ratio was under 0.03, but then it, like, immediately reversed and is like at 0.036 or something like that after that, right? So, you know, you might think that, oh, the market's a lot bigger than these petty little things, but it's not just, I guess, like the petty little things.
00:05:29.974 - 00:05:57.162, Speaker A: It's like a culmination of everything that happens. And that's the sentiment is obviously what drives a lot of these markets because there's a lot of retail investors that like to kind of go in and out of positions. There's a lot of leverage. So if you can trade off that sentiment and harness it. You can make a lot of money. And I think there are a lot of people that have a lot of money and do, and a lot of big traders that do trade off of this. And they probably see, you know, the discourse and they're like, okay, well, you know, people are getting too cocky now.
00:05:57.162 - 00:06:30.410, Speaker A: This kind of area is overheated. I'm going to move my profits from there into other things. So that's kind of how I see it always playing out here. And you can look at the charts, you can just look at the ratios between different ecosystems and different coins, and it kind of always, I think, plays out like that. And to be fair, I mean, talking about cockiness and different kind of ecosystems, having massive egos, ethereum enjoyed being very dominant for a very long time. And now ethereum has some competition, right, and competition that is kind of gaining some market share. So, and that's, that's, that's a good thing.
00:06:30.410 - 00:06:58.714, Speaker A: I think at the end of the day, like, competition is never a bad thing. Um, you know, but, but I think in general, like, gets to a point where people just, like, get way too ahead of themselves. And it's funny how that plays out. Uh, you know, we saw a play out in 2017, too, with ETH almost flipping bitcoin. Right? And then what ended up happening was that everyone was like, well, okay, it's not going to flip bitcoin. I'm going to sell my ETH here and then, um, I'm going to go into bitcoin or whatever because it was like, under, it was, I, people are underexposed to it. So I think that's what's happening across the ecosystem right now in the markets.
00:06:58.714 - 00:07:22.534, Speaker A: I'm not a trader myself, but I do kind of pay attention to a lot of this stuff because just interesting. And it piques my curiosity a lot. But yeah, just lately it's been, it's been funny and, you know, it's always, it's always funny to see, like, the memes and everything. You know, I'm on Twitter all the time talking about decentralization and why it matters and things like that, and people like to make fun of me for that, and that's fine. You know, it's not like I'm just started talking about this stuff now. I mean, I've been here for a long time. I've been talking about it forever.
00:07:22.534 - 00:07:47.658, Speaker A: And, and, you know, it's just funny to see, like, the sentiment and, and kind of like, see, you know, the new users versus the kind of like, the older users who have been here for a while and see how that kind of changes there. But in general, I think it's, you know, over the long term, it's, it's fine, it's positive. People learn, you know, people, people kind of like, get burnt. Yeah. I mean, if you actually look at it, the. A lot of the way a lot of people learn from these sorts of things is if they get burnt on things, too. And that's how I learned.
00:07:47.658 - 00:08:18.286, Speaker A: Like, I'm not going to say that I was someone who was a, who was, who didn't fall for pump and dumps once upon a time as well, or, or didn't kind of chase things that I thought were going to be big and turned out to be nothing. There was a lot of that in 2017 and all just fizzled out. Right. And so I think over the long term, you see what's lasting, what has value. Like, I'm 100% confident that ethereum is going to, you know, be last and have value for a very, very long time. And I'm confident that some apps in Defi are going to do that as well. Less confident than I am as Ethereum as a platform, because the application layer is a lot more competitive.
00:08:18.286 - 00:08:49.084, Speaker A: Um, but, yeah, I mean, just from that perspective, it's just like, easy for me to kind of sit back and be like, you know, this is just a lot of noise. We'll wait, you know, over the long term, see what sticks around, see what doesn't. And, you know, that's, that's another thing that's really exciting about the, this industry, I think, is that it can change so dramatically in a matter of months. And being around to kind of witness that, you know, is quite fun at the end of the day. So, yeah, anyway, I think I'm rambling a little bit there. Just a bit of market commentary after, I guess, like the crazy kind of last few weeks that we've been having across the entire crypto markets. There, there.
00:08:49.084 - 00:09:19.792, Speaker A: So another thing I've been seeing lately is a lot of people are now trying to spread this kind of fud about L2s on Ethereum and are calling them insecure. Right. And it's funny to see this because, as I said on this tweet here, it's pretty encouraging to see it because we move, we've moved from, like, the narrative that Ethereum can't scale to the narrative that L2s are insecure. Because now people have seen that L2s are real. Right. There are L2s live on Ethereum today, they work. They're scalable.
00:09:19.792 - 00:09:47.436, Speaker A: So people are like, so, you know, the haters are like, well, crap, we have to, we have to pivot, you know, pivot the narrative, pivot the Fud. And now it's like L2s are insecure. And, you know, you typically see this from competing ecosystems, and that's fine. I mean, these ecosystems have to sell narratives as well. But, like, obviously I'm going to fight back against that and a lot of people in the ecosystem are going to, are going to fight back against that as well. But, you know, then I say here, you know, that real progress is being made whenever the haters are moving the goalposts. And really, like, this has happened for everything.
00:09:47.436 - 00:10:09.204, Speaker A: I mean, it's happened for ETH two. You know, a lot of people for a long time said that ETH two would never launch, right? And then the beacon chain obviously launched. And then these kind of, like people have said, oh, well, it's not really ETH two because the merger hasn't been done yet. It's like, well, okay, yeah, but we're going to do the merger soon, right? And then when the merger gets done, I'm sure they're going to come up with something else. It's just noise. It's so much noise. It's so much crap.
00:10:09.204 - 00:11:00.920, Speaker A: It's such a useless waste of time to even, like, entertain these sorts of things. And the only reason I bring it up is because I want, you know, all of you to be aware that, you know, you spending your time with the, these kinds of things is just like, just like a waste, right? It's, it's the only positive thing is that you, if you can see the narrative kind of changing and the, the fud pivoting, you know, that something is going well, right? So, you know, if the Fud stays the same, and, you know, a lot of the times, the things that people call FuD are actually, like, valid criticisms. People just call it FuD because it doesn't fit their narrative. But in general, you know, Ethereum, saying Ethereum can't scale was never, like a valid criticism because Ethereum has always been able to scale. It's just that we didn't want to sacrifice decentralization to do that. So it took longer to get to a point where we could scale while preserving that decentralization. And it's the same argument that was lobbied at bitcoin for a long time.
00:11:00.920 - 00:11:21.000, Speaker A: And obviously, you know, bitcoin is scaling in certain ways, but they've kind of like, I guess, nestled into the digital gold narrative, which doesn't require massive scale, whereas Ethereum does. Right. Ethereum requires massive scale scale because of the. It's an application platform. At the end of the day, it's a value settlement platform, and we don't want their fees to be. To be really high, obviously. Right.
00:11:21.000 - 00:12:24.340, Speaker A: So from that point of view, just, just good to see this kind of progress being made here. And, I mean, I'm sure this is going to continue as soon as, like, the L2s kind of are alive and, you know, in a much bigger way and prove to be more secure, or at least like, prove the haters that they're secure because they aren't insecure. If I'm being there, there are obviously properties to it that, you know, there's always attack vectors and everything like that. But the L2s, as a lot of you are aware of, they inherit a theorem security because they basically rely on Ethereum for that, for their security and for their decentralization. So from that perspective, L2 is, when constructed in the correct way. Don't get me wrong, there are ways you can construct L2s that make them, make them insecure, but, you know, properly constructed ZK roll ups and optimistic roll ups and are very secure. And even like, things like side chains that commit to Ethereum, like Polygon, which is actually called a commit chain because it actually inherits, it doesn't inherit Ethereum's kind of validator set or its security, but what, what polygon does is that it actually uses Ethereum for its staking kind of validators.
00:12:24.340 - 00:12:55.820, Speaker A: So this smart contract that controls the staking lives on Ethereum. And every 30 minutes to 3 hours, the polygon chain is committed to Ethereum. And so the state is committed, so that if something was to go wrong, you could actually just, like, use a theorem as, like a backup, so to speak. So it's not directly kind of like, it's not, it's not like roll ups, which are directly kind of reliant on aetherium, and. And, and kind of like, secure by. Secured directly by a theory. Um, but it is, it is a lot better than just, you know, your vanilla side chain, which just doesn't do anything on a theory.
00:12:55.820 - 00:13:19.966, Speaker A: I'm right. Does everything kind of, you know, on its own chain sort of thing there. So, yeah. Good to see this progress being made here. So, speaking of, I guess, scalability in general, instadap has announced that they are live on polygon here. And this is because Aave is there. So now instadap has a way to kind of utilize polygon, which they basically, instadap gives you a way to interact with Aave on Polygon.
00:13:19.966 - 00:14:04.264, Speaker A: So you can basically do refinancing between kind of like, I guess the theorems layer one and polygons L2 kind of here. So yeah, if you are using Aave on Polygon and you want a really easy way to kind of manage your positions and kind of like, you know, take out new positions, close positions instead, apps are really great tool for that. And, you know, instead apps obviously available on Ethereum as well as well here. So definitely go check them out. If you haven't yet, I'm sure a lot of you have checked out Insta dapple used it before. It's a very popular app on Ethereum and they basically give you ways to, as I said, manage your positions across are there on Polygon, but like across many different defi apps on, on Ethereum right now, like uniswap and compound and things like that. And it just, it's a very nice interface as well.
00:14:04.264 - 00:14:48.908, Speaker A: So it makes it super simple to do all this stuff and I highly recommend going and checking it out there. So nada from Edge and node here, which is part of the graph protocol ecosystem, has put together a complete guide to full stack Ethereum development here. So this is a super deep dive introduction to building apps with solidity, the programming language that Ethereum uses and react, which is a kind of like non crypto programming language here. And basically you can see like how long this guide is here. Obviously this is for developers or aspiring developers. Like this is a very kind of long intro and deep dive here. But you know, this will give you kind of like a nice getting started and kind of like building these with building basically Ethereum apps here, which is really, really cool.
00:14:48.908 - 00:15:33.730, Speaker A: You know, I was just reading a tweet actually before that was someone said basically, you know, it doesn't take long to learn kind of like solidity programming. And if you do, you can make a lot of money off it too, because if you build an app, right, that a lot of people get value out of, you know, and you don't even necessarily have to have a token. You can build lots of different apps that, that provide value to people and then just like take a small fee, or you can build apps that do things with like Mev, which I'm actually going to go into in a little bit because I know Mev has been the talk of the town over the weekend. But yeah, I mean, if you are aspiring to be a developer, this is definitely a guide that I would check out. So definitely go give this a read here. Obviously I'm not going to go through it on the refill here, but obviously if you're not a developer, you don't really care to be a developer. That's someone like me.
00:15:33.730 - 00:16:09.822, Speaker A: This is probably is not much use to you, but it doesn't matter. I think at the end of the day the developers aware where it's at, right. And we need to encourage people to, to become a theorem developers or as many people as possible to become Ethereum developers. So yeah, definitely go check this out. So Chris from Makerdao has created this new site called l twobeat.com. What this basically does is it tracks the, at the moment, it's tracking the total value locked in L2s on Ethereum. As you can see here, there's about $300 million locked, majority of that being loop ring with 182 million, optimism with 93 million, which is all synthetix right now.
00:16:09.822 - 00:16:36.170, Speaker A: DYDX at 12.4 million, which is really great to see so soon after their launch. Zksync with 8 million, Aztec with four hundred forty three k and fuel with just a couple of dollars here. But I don't think fuel is, is really live in any kind of like great capacity yet. But anyway, good to see this site come out. I would love to see more metrics here, like volumes on these exchanges, right? I would love to see fees paid. I would love to see fees paid to a theory and by the roll ups and things like that.
00:16:36.170 - 00:16:58.364, Speaker A: But you know, this is just the first iteration of it. Really great to see. You know, I mentioned last week how the block has their L2 activity dashboard as well. A lot of it is just tracking total value locks right now. As I said, I want to see volumes, right? I want to see fees paid. Like, even though the fees are small or non existent, I still want to see that activity. And I want to see the fees paid to Ethereum's main net by these L2 solutions.
00:16:58.364 - 00:17:36.546, Speaker A: And, you know, on top of that, I was discussing this in the daily gray Discord channel as well. It is going to be harder to kind of know what's real and what's not on L2s in terms of kind of activity because some of these L2s are offering free trading, right? There's no gas fees. So what you can do is you can essentially kind of just like wash trade on the chain, right? And like, and like fake the volumes. Essentially. This is what we see typically on the low fee blockchains out there that, that kind of offer these, like, dirt cheap fees, and it makes sense for people to kind of, you know, fake the activity for one reason or another. I think we're going to have to find a way to kind of filter that out on L2s. I'm sure there are ways to filter out.
00:17:36.546 - 00:18:05.474, Speaker A: You can do pattern matching and things like that, but it's definitely something that we're going to have to consider. Whereas total value locked is much harder to kind of fake here. You know, people can just deposit money into, into a L2 solution, maybe to pump a token or something like that. But, you know, I don't really think that that works over the long term. Maybe it works in the short term. And, you know, there's opportunity cost to capital as well. Like if you put $100 million in loop ring, for example, because you're trying to pump the LRC token, that means you don't have $100 million to do something else on ethereum.
00:18:05.474 - 00:18:35.164, Speaker A: So it's really not worth it at the end of the day. But yeah. Interested to see how this site evolves here, and thanks to Chris for kind of making it. Speaking of L2s, Dy DX is continuing its growth here. It did $16 million in 24 hours trading volume, I think, on Saturday here, but I believe so. And the current kind of 24 hours trading volume record is held by loop ring at 35 million. I think dy Dex is gonna, is gonna kind of break this, you know, sooner rather than later.
00:18:35.164 - 00:19:19.906, Speaker A: You know, they're kind of growing pretty fast here. As I mentioned last, on last week's refuel, they went to main net, so public main net, where, you know, there's no, I don't think there's any capital limits of people kind of, I guess, is getting into DoI Dex right now. Maybe wrong there. There may still be capital limits, but I don't think so. So it's just, it's just a matter of like, adopting this thing, getting more awareness around it, and, and getting more people on board, especially kind of like various market makers and more ecosystem participants, which I'm sure they're going to come on board over time, and we're going to see this grow out there. So really, really great to see Doi Dex growing here with $16 million of 24 hours trading volume as a new record for them. So Ben Edgington put out his latest what's new in ETH two update here.
00:19:19.906 - 00:20:12.212, Speaker A: You can go check it out in the YouTube description, of course. This is the, I guess, ETH two update bible it's where I get all of my ETH two update updates from. There is no better resource than this, I don't think. He basically collects all the information you need to know about like the Beacon chain alter Altair, which is the first kind of hard for going live soon for ETH two, the merge rayonism, which is the ETH one to ETH two kind of merge effort that's being done as part of the Ethereum scaling hackathon to basically get a demo or a testnet of this merger up and running with a stretch goal of sharding happening on there as well. Then a bunch of other kind of links here to what Ben likes to call the great explainers, which are educational materials, media kind of spots for ETH two staff research. The calls, you know, the ETH two calls that have been happening. I mean, there's everything you would ever want in here.
00:20:12.212 - 00:20:42.376, Speaker A: So if you haven't done so yet, be sure to subscribe. There's a subscribe button at the top right here, basically an RSS feed. And you know, if you want to check this out you can. It'll be linked in the YouTube description below, below. All right, so the biggest, I guess, thing to happen over the weekend, and something that everyone has been talking about is this concept of MeV. And you might have heard of these terms like flush bots or PGA bots. And you might have seen that gas fees are down and got down to like the sixties over the weekend.
00:20:42.376 - 00:21:30.286, Speaker A: You know, they're usually lower on the weekend, but sixties doesn't really happen very often. Now, there are a lot of people attributing this to the adoption of what's called flashbots. Now, before I can explain to you what flashbots is, I have to explain to you what Mev is. Now, some of you may know what it is, so I'll just give a quick kind of high level overview here. But MEV stands for minor extractable value. Now, what this is is basically value that not just miners, but anyone can extract on Ethereum based on certain activity. So, for example, you might have heard of a concept called front running, which basically means that when you submit a transaction, say you're submitting a trade on uniswap and you're trading some, some dai for ETH, right? What can end up happening is that someone can front run that trade, right? And kind of like make a profit by doing so.
00:21:30.286 - 00:22:15.324, Speaker A: By kind of doing a front run, doing an arbitrage transaction between different liquidity pools on Ethereum. Now this might mean that you get kind of like worse off price than you would have got, maybe only by, like a little amount, but your transaction is still going to go through and everything, and that's going to be fine. But the reason it's called kind of mev miner extractable value is because the miners have a very big advantage here. Now, why do they have advantage with Mev? Well, because miners control the transaction ordering in a block. So every transaction that ever gets kind of done in Ethereum goes into what's called the mempool. Now, the mempool is like the waiting area before your transaction gets included in a block. So you might know that an Ethereum block happens every 15 seconds, and when you see that your transaction is pending, it's waiting to go into an Ethereum block.
00:22:15.324 - 00:22:55.490, Speaker A: Now, if you paid the rapid gas transaction fee, you'll be, you know, there's a high chance that you're going to be in the next Ethereum block, essentially. So in 15 seconds or less, your transaction is going to be included. And there you go, it's done. Now, if you pay like a lower gas fee, it might take a couple blocks to get in, but eventually it's going to go in, right? Unless you pay like a really small fee and you're kind of stuck. And then you have to do that speed up mechanism that you see in metamask when you press the speed up button to pay a higher gas fee. But essentially, that's, that's what happens now. Now, because the miners can control the transaction ordering in a block, and because the miners don't have to accept, don't have to necessarily only include transactions that include a fee attached to them.
00:22:55.490 - 00:23:58.266, Speaker A: What they can do is they can include zero fee transactions, so they can basically put in their own transaction at, you know, at the front of the line, so they can basically skip through everyone else and basically say, oh, well, I don't care that this person's paying much higher gas fees than anyone else, right. I I'm going to put my transaction at the, basically at the front of the queue, and it's going to be the first one that gets included in a block, and I'm going to pay zero fees for it. So obviously, that's a very powerful ability to have. Now that you kind of understand how MEV works at a high level, you can basically begin to understand how flashbots works. Now, what flashbots is, it's basically an initiative or a piece of software that was created. It's open source and everything like that, but it was created to democratize MeV or at least that's how it's being sold. Now, what this means is it basically gives anyone an opportunity to have direct access to mining pools, to basically get access to these zero fee kind of arbitrage opportunities, or these zero fee kind of mev opportunities, or front running sandwich attacks.
00:23:58.266 - 00:24:50.414, Speaker A: You might have heard of all these kind of things before. Now, what this means is that instead of paying gas fees directly on the Ethereum network and participating in what's called priority gas auctions, or, you know, participating in the normal kind of transaction flow, where you have to outbid other people to get your transaction included, what flashbots allows you to do it is essentially allows you to bribe the miner outside of the mem pool to include your transaction. So the flow would look like this. You find an MAV opportunity on Ethereum, you think, wow, okay, I'm going to exploit that, because I'm going to make x amount of dollars if this succeeds. And I'm going to do this by, you know, harnessing flashbots, which means I'm going to submit my transaction to flashbots. They're going to submit that, and then I'm going to pay kind of like a kind of bribe on top of that to this miner. And then the miner is going to include this transaction into a block for zero gas fees.
00:24:50.414 - 00:25:21.864, Speaker A: Right. Or the mining pool will include the transaction for zero gas fees. Now, you know, you might have come to the realization by now that this is why gas fees are trending lower, because now all the people that were doing Mev on kind of, I guess, like the, the Ethereum mempool, because they were, they were in the same kind of transaction waiting pool that everyone else was. They were having to do these things called with PGA bots. They were having to do priority gas auctions. They were having to compete against everyone. Now, they don't have to compete based on gas price anymore.
00:25:21.864 - 00:25:46.546, Speaker A: They basically, I would assume they compete. They compete based on the bride they pay to the miners. So what ends up happening now is you have two transaction waiting pools. You have the one that, that flashbots has, right, which is the zero gas fee, bribe the miner gear transaction included. And then you have the mempool, which is where all the regular users are. Now, I think, you know, we don't know if this is like a net positive overall. Right.
00:25:46.546 - 00:26:14.590, Speaker A: Mev can be toxic. I don't think, you know, I think long term, we need a better way of solving Mev than quote, unquote, democratizing it. But I've explained on the refill before, the MEV is actually very, very hard to solve for, because to. The way you would solve it is that you would randomize the order that the transactions get included in a block. Right. You would take away the ability for miners or even stakers to order transactions, and you would randomize it. Now, I don't know why this isn't possible today.
00:26:14.590 - 00:26:26.328, Speaker A: I'm not smart enough. I haven't looked into it enough. But as far as I know, it is not possible to do that today in a. In a. In a. In a provably random way where they couldn't be gamed. There are obviously people working on this.
00:26:26.328 - 00:27:01.948, Speaker A: It is something that I think, you know, cryptographic researchers like Justin Drake expect to be solved eventually. And there's a bunch of other researchers working on this. I mean, solving MeV is one of the hardest research problems in the space right now. So, obviously, it's going to attract some of the smartest minds in the space. But in the meantime, we have flashbots, which basically allows, you know, all of this to happen. Now, if you want on chain proof of this happening, you can see here from Alex, Alex from Nansen here. He basically posted this chart that shows the percentage of blocks with at least 10 gas price transaction in them.
00:27:01.948 - 00:27:43.216, Speaker A: Now, this is obviously skyrocketed during kind of like the last few, I guess, like weeks. I mean, even just the last couple of weeks, it skyrocketed in April from about 5% up to 35%, if I'm just eyeing the chart here correctly. Now, the reason why I think this has finally taken off is flashbots is relatively new. It's only been around, I think, since maybe February or March. But on top of this, if you kind of, like, think about what happened with ERP 1559, and mine is being like, wow, okay, 1559 is going to cut into our revenue because it's burning a portion of fees. And then people telling them, well, just look at Mev, right? Just look at all the opportunities within Mev, and you can make some extra revenue from that. I think that's what's happened.
00:27:43.216 - 00:28:24.254, Speaker A: The miners are finally kind of using this MeV. Apparently, like, 60% of all the hash rate is now, you know, plugged into flashbots, which means that, you know, this is kind of the effect that we're seeing play out here. So the TLDR here. And the net effect is that, yes, gas fees are going to be lower now, or at least until activity picks up again. And kind of like, the gas fees just trend higher in general again. But, you know, that's why the gas fees have been lower. At least that is the, I guess, like, you know, it's still, I mean, it's, it's a theory, but there is like very hard evidence behind it, but it's still like just a, I mean, it's a theory with evidence, but still, no one's 100% sure, but it's highly likely that this is the reason and this is only going to continue.
00:28:24.254 - 00:28:54.322, Speaker A: Mev. And the amount of value that can be extracted by MeV is absolutely massive. And that value just comes from the fact that there's a lot of fragments of liquidity pools on Ethereum. Like you think about it, uniswap has its own liquidity pools. Sushi swap has its own liquidity pools. Curve has its own liquidity pools. So any kind of arbitrage transactions between those can be front run, can be sandwiched, can, can be, you know, basically MeV'd as much as you want now, you know, people can do this using flashbots, and it can be done in a, quote, unquote, more democratic way.
00:28:54.322 - 00:30:01.906, Speaker A: It can be done in a way that is not Paris, you know, totally parasitic to users by essentially, I guess, bidding up the transaction fees really, really high. I'm really, really curious to see what happens with the transaction fees now when, you know, say the ETH price drops like, you know, rapidly in a day, say it drops like 20% in a day, and we get those, that classic, like, spike in gas fees, like 1000 way, because everyone's trying to do arbitrage, and everyone's trying to do, trying to save their positions from liquidation, and everyone's trying to liquidate everyone else. Will we get like a much less of a spike in gas fees because of the fact that the flashbot stuff is here? I think so. And then, you know, if it doesn't happen, and then by the time 1559 is implemented, then I think it's even more true, because one fight, what 1559 does is it's, it kind of like smooths out the fees in general as well. So, you know, flashbots coupled with 1559 means that users are going to enjoy a cheaper kind of transaction experience on layer one, and they're also going to enjoy a kind of better experience with gas fee user, user kind of experience, and user kind of interface here. So, yeah, that's the story of mev and flashbots. There's a lot more to it than that.
00:30:01.906 - 00:30:18.814, Speaker A: I know a lot of people are still confused by it. I'm not going to say I'm an expert on it by any means. But that's the high level of how I understand, you know, how Mev works and how what Mev is. Sorry. And how flushbots works within that realm. There you'll be seeing a lot more people talk about this. All the galaxy brains within the ecosystem are working on it.
00:30:18.814 - 00:30:57.736, Speaker A: And if you want to get involved, there are plenty of ways to do so. If you just Google like Mev or flashbots, it's all open source, it's all open research. You can get involved if you are. If you're someone who likes to tackle hard problems within the crypto ecosystem. And speaking of Mev as well, there's a really great thread from Robert Miller here on basically what sandwich attacks are and how to take money from the sandwich bots. So apparently Robert here spotted that a, someone was able to take 100 ETH from sandwich bots, then a second person was able to jump in and make an extra 300 ETH by exploiting other sandwich bots here. Now, I'm not going to read out this whole thread.
00:30:57.736 - 00:31:16.722, Speaker A: It's a longish thread, and it gets a little bit technical, but I highly recommend going and reading it because it's a wild story. I mean, sandwich bots are just absolutely kind of. Kind of wild here. And, you know, they're true to their name. If you think about it, a sandwich, you know, basically the. The kind of like end user gets stuck in the middle, and then the sandwich bots kind of like, close in on it, and it's kind of like. It's.
00:31:16.722 - 00:31:39.146, Speaker A: It's a way. It's a form of mev. It definitely extracts value here, but I'm not going to do it justice by explaining it on the refuel. So definitely go check out this thread from, from Robert here if you want to learn more about that one. All right, to finish up here, finish up here. I wanted to kind of discuss Uniswap and why them going to L2 will be a game changer for the entire industry. I wrote about this in the newsletter today.
00:31:39.146 - 00:31:58.218, Speaker A: You can go check that out if you want to read my long form thoughts, but I'll give a TLDR here. So I put out like a tweet here where I basically said, and get my reasons why. I think it's going to be a game changer. Uniswap has already confirmed they'll be deploying on optimism. Optimism. L two. Now, this could happen as early as May, you know, shortly after the v three release goes.
00:31:58.218 - 00:32:39.882, Speaker A: Goes live. It doesn't have to wait until July until optimism goes live. With the public mainnet, because they can go optimism, sorry, Uniswap can go live on optimism's private mainnet all the same. Now it's a big deal because no other app has the brand awareness that Uniswap has by far. I mean, if you kind of think about it pretty much like anyone's kind of first interaction with Ethereum, Defi is Uniswap because Uniswap is where you exchange things, right? And Uniswap is the most popular app, has the most brand awareness, as I mentioned. Now, Uniswap also accounts for 60% of all the centralized exchange volume on Ethereum. Still, like, if you look at the chart, it's actually, it's actually pretty insane that Uniswap has still been able to retain that market share, and that's simply because of the network effects it has around it.
00:32:39.882 - 00:32:57.306, Speaker A: It's huge. And I also believe that this will show off the power of L2 on Ethereum. There's going to be so many more people that look at this and they're going to see, wow, a theorem can scale. Wow, holy crap. Like, I didn't realize that you could do this on Ethereum. And they're going to realize the power of L2. And I know there's other solutions already live.
00:32:57.306 - 00:33:25.922, Speaker A: I know loop ring exists, I know diversify exists, I know DyDx exists, obviously, but they don't, they are not anywhere near as big as uniswap. Like, that's just the truth. The truth of the matter, as you can see, Uniswap has 60% of the Dex volume still. And because of that, they're going to be able to bootstrap an ecosystem on L2 probably faster than any other app can. And wherever Uniswap goes, you know, I think a lot of the other apps are going to go as well. So, you know, obviously, Uniswap is confirmed. They're going to be on optimism.
00:33:25.922 - 00:34:00.552, Speaker A: I think, you know, I don't think it's just going to be optimism and that's it. I think other solutions are going to exist and there'll be bridges between it. But obviously, optimism is going to play a very important role here because of Uniswap. And Uniswap is a leader in this ecosystem, or at least one of the leaders, if not the leader, you know, even though it's not the biggest app by total value locked, it is the biggest app by brand awareness by far, and by number of unique users by far as well. So, yeah, those are just some thoughts there. As I said, it's in today's daily Gray newsletter if you want to go read some more thoughts about that. All right, everyone, thank you again for listening and watching.
00:34:00.552 - 00:34:08.184, Speaker A: That's it for today. Be sure to subscribe to the channel, give that video a thumbs up, join the Discord Channel, subscribe to the newsletter, and I'll catch you all tomorrow. Thanks, everyone.
