00:00:14.010 - 00:00:53.846, Speaker A: If you're an early stage web3 founder, apply to our award winning accelerator program Basecamp. At Outliventures IO Basecamp, we write your 1st $50,000 check and give you access to 200 mentors, including many of the leading web3 founders, and a network of 1000 of the world's leading investors and exchanges. We've helped over 30 startups from 15 countries from all around the world raise $130,000,000 in growth funding and can help you fast track product market fit and, where relevant, the launch of your token economy. So today I'm really happy to welcome on the show Aaron Wright, founder of Openlaw.
00:00:53.878 - 00:00:57.950, Speaker B: Welcome, Aaron. Hey, thanks so much for having me, Jamie. Really excited to be here.
00:00:58.100 - 00:01:39.402, Speaker A: Yeah, so I'm really looking forward to this one. So I'm going to make an attempt to describe Openlaw at a high level. And of course we're going to unpack and break all this down later. But if you just go off your website, which the language is, I would say perhaps deliberately neutral in describing what you're doing. So a kind of digital contraction contracting platform to eliminate grunt work. Now that feels like a very generalized statement. And we're going to talk a little bit about exactly what you mean by that and I guess the kind of current client user base versus perhaps long term where you envision it to go.
00:01:39.402 - 00:02:56.290, Speaker A: But effectively it says that platform is built for modern law and it's secure, it's built by lawyers, but clearly lawyers that are native to web3. And I think that's kind of one of the really important things and reasons why I wanted you on the show. So you yourself are a serial founder. You've sold a company to Wikia called Armchair GM a few years back. And the thing is, when you, so you're a founder, you are working and enabling other founders in web3, especially kind of native web3 founders around the implementation of dows and in particular a variation of that that you guys had developed called the Lao. And one of the reasons why I wanted you on is because most of the time when we talk about law or we invite lawyers, ex lawyers, to talk about crypto, it's usually in the context of regulation. But actually I think increasingly this theme around governance, decentralized governance, the difference between an executive and the kind of this democratic governance.
00:02:56.290 - 00:03:38.626, Speaker A: But then of course, just the term smart contracting implies that the world of contracting itself is ripe for transformation disruption. Depends how you're looking at it. So I really wanted to, of course talk about open law, but also talk more broadly about dows Laos is code law. Can it ever be law in a smart contracting sense? Perhaps some of the nuances of on chain, off chain arbitration, all that good stuff. Firstly, maybe before we kind of jump into that, coming back to the language points. So the language on the website, as I said, feels quite neutral. I.
00:03:38.626 - 00:03:59.546, Speaker A: E. The language is written in a way to not put off a law firm like a traditional law firm or a traditional kind of corporate entity that wants to improve its contracting. But of course, that is slightly different to the kind of bleeding edge of work that you're doing now in dows and laos. I'm assuming that's deliberate, right?
00:03:59.648 - 00:04:54.758, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. The genesis of open law really stems from the story of crypto punks more broadly. And I think from the beginning and starting in the early 1990s, late 1980s, there was this vision of how commerce could look like a big piece of that vision is digital assets, things like bitcoin or e currency, which we've seen develop. We also saw with Ethereum, kind of the creation and first implementation of a smart contracting platform. But there was a related concept called the ricardian contract, which Ian Grigg and a whole bunch of other folks also thought about around that point in time. So I had the pleasure of playing a small role, helping to launch Ethereum got deep into the blockchain and bitcoin ecosystem starting in 2011. And this kind of third leg in the stool has never been developed.
00:04:54.758 - 00:05:42.106, Speaker B: And that really is the core focus of what we're trying to do with Openmont. We're trying to build out a ricardian contracting system that can complement smart contracts and more efficiently move digital assets. And we think it's these kind of three pillars that will form the basis of the future commercial world. And Openlaw as a tool is just a powerful way to do that. We're able to take any agreement, not only one agreement, but entire sets of agreements. We're able to structure those agreements, turn them into computer readable format, and also orchestrate the underlying smart contract calls that may be necessary to move around assets. So legal agreements, while dry, they're kind of the dark matter of the commercial world.
00:05:42.106 - 00:06:26.322, Speaker B: They sit everywhere. They're in every single industry. They're obviously very important for financial contracts or financial services, but they really seep and are kind of pervasive in how we structure our world. And so we think the applications for Openlaw are incredibly broad. That being said, we also realize that there's great opportunities for them to be used today, particularly in areas like dows or in other areas where web3 entrepreneurs or other entrepreneurs want to kind of bring blockchain technology to more traditional businesses. So we're able to do that in a number of different contexts. So I think lots of folks have thought about smart contracts.
00:06:26.322 - 00:07:19.278, Speaker B: Lawyers hear smart contracts and they think these incredibly dynamic systems that are going to be able to read and potentially write information, automatically execute things. An ethereum based smart contract, or another smart contract running on another blockchain doesn't fundamentally do that in and of itself, really. A smart contract excels at moving around assets or structuring the movement of assets. A ricardian contract kind of fills in all the gaps. So contracts, at least as we think about them, as lawyers, or as more traditional folks would think about them, they don't just move assets, they don't just perform something, they also manage risk. And a ricardian contract system is really great at doing that. You can blend together the best of these paper agreements that first emerged thousands of years ago to manage risk and to structure relationships using natural language provisions.
00:07:19.278 - 00:07:46.658, Speaker B: But at the same time, you can get the speed and efficiency of using underlying ethereum based smart contracts to move around assets and start to build more complex structures. And we think incredibly important. We think it's incredibly interesting, and we do think it opens up new pathways to things like daos, to decentralized arbitration, to lots of the other concepts that I know many entrepreneurs and other folks have been thinking about for quite some time.
00:07:46.824 - 00:09:03.574, Speaker A: Yeah, we had Mark S. Miller of Agoricon a couple of shows ago, who is the co founder of Agoric and Internet OG, and at the end of the podcast, one of the most inspirational monologues I've ever heard for me, anyway, in the space which talks about this idea around contracting and how contracts and finding consensus and removing the kind of friction of trust in contracting in a kind of global, universal sense, like the promise of that. At a societal level, I think his kind of closing term was if you remove the cost of cooperation, you increase cooperation. I think it's, as you say, often kind of overlooked, but just the power of that regarding contracts and stuff at scale is almost unfathomable. So let's just give some context to you as a founder. As I said, this is, from what I could see, your second startup, the first one was Armchair GM LLC, founded back in 2005. You were co founder, sold that to Wikia, and then ended up working at Wikia.
00:09:03.574 - 00:09:15.034, Speaker A: Could you talk us through that? I'm assuming it was some kind of legal tech, reg tech, and Wikia was the acquirer. And then you kind of went on there to similarly help develop products, solutions, technologies.
00:09:15.162 - 00:09:36.982, Speaker B: Sure. Yeah. It was actually pretty far afield from legal tech, but I think kind of all fits together neatly. So Wikia was the for profit sister project to Wikipedia. So Wikipedia is obviously not for profit. Wikia is the for profit version of it. We developed some technology that basically extended what Wikipedia can do.
00:09:36.982 - 00:10:53.614, Speaker B: A lot of it is now kind of embedded into the core aspects of Wikipedia, and we were able to take media wiki, which is the underlying open source software, enhance it, improve it, make it more collaborative. That kind of formed the base of Lakeia, which grew into, depending on the metric that you use, the 15th to 17th largest website on the planet, at least in terms of unique visitors and page views, according to certain analytics companies. But this notion of open source technology and user generated technology brought me deeply into the bitcoin ecosystem very early on. Just kind of saw it instantaneously, and once Ethereum was announced, reached out and started working closely with many folks in the Ethereum ecosystem, helped do a whole bunch of legal structuring and legal work related to it, and also have continued to work with a number of great teams over the years, have done a lot with Joe Lubin and the folks at consensus. I've also worked closely with the folks at Chainlink and a whole bunch of others. And that all kind of sits in the background of the fact that I am an academic. So I'm a law professor at Cardoza Law School in New York.
00:10:53.614 - 00:11:28.278, Speaker B: I've had the pleasure of thinking about lots of the policy questions and issues related to the technology. I co authored a book that Harvard published on blockchain law and policy, and that is where the germ and kind of extension of what a recording contracting system should look like kind of fermented. And then we pulled that together along with my co founder of Openlaw, David Roon, who helped build the Ethereum Java client before Ethereum launched along with others, we started putting our heads down and really building out open Moff. So that's a bit of my story.
00:11:28.364 - 00:11:43.550, Speaker A: And I understand that at the Cardoza School of Law, you also founder director of the blockchain Project and tech startup clinic there. That was between 2014 to present, and then Open Law was founded 2017.
00:11:45.890 - 00:11:46.206, Speaker B: As.
00:11:46.228 - 00:12:19.340, Speaker A: You say, it sounds like you've been deeply in the space, both academically and professionally, at least since 2014, perhaps before and then led to the founding of open law. Could you just talk us through the kind of mission behind open law? So I know earlier on in the intro, you kind of spoke to, I guess, the opportunity. But what led you specifically to found open law itself?
00:12:19.790 - 00:13:02.562, Speaker B: Yeah, I mean, like many folks, I became deeply interested in bitcoin following the 2008 financial crisis. I just felt like something was off and amiss in the entire system and we could do better. I saw bitcoin as really the first glimmers of what a future commercial and financial system can look like. I saw Ethereum as an extension of that, but at the same time, deeply aware of how the legal system works. I recognized that there was not just issues in terms of our banking system, but also in terms of our legal system. And so open law and ricardian contracts, I think, in many ways aim to solve that. Contracts are dead objects.
00:13:02.562 - 00:13:34.690, Speaker B: They get written, they get stored in flat files, usually in Microsoft Word. People forget about them, they can't understand them, they can't interact with them. And I think that is a travesty. I think it's a travesty for how we operate society. We're not able to assess risk. We're not able to lower the cost of how contracts are assembled or put together, or how we structure different relationships. And that's what we have been trying to solve and been thinking about for quite some time.
00:13:34.690 - 00:14:35.010, Speaker B: And we stand on the shoulders of really great folks. We stand on the shoulders of lots of the early cyberpunks, folks like Mark Miller, who you mentioned before, a number of different people that have been thinking about these types of issues from the beginning. And over the past couple of years, we've been fortunate enough to pull together what we think is the first robust ricardian contracting system where we're actually able to structure these agreements. We built a non turing complete programming language to map out the internal logic of how contracts work. And the smart contract orchestration pieces just means that we can do things a lot faster. And that is what we are hoping to push out to the world. And we envision a future where there's not just a handful of contracts, but the hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of contracts that are produced a year can be completely interoperated with and interacted with by any computing system in the world.
00:14:35.010 - 00:15:44.538, Speaker B: That means that we should be able to distill out the key data points. We should be able to structure new forms of organizations that are leaner, cheaper, easier to administer. We should also be able to accentuate lots of the great work that other entrepreneurs are doing in the blockchain ecosystem so that they can manage risks that they may be creating and or also make sure that those platforms can seep into more traditional parts of the economy around the globe. So it's a pretty broad mission, but we think one that's critically important. And at the end of the day, we should be able to lower the cost of creating contracts, open up new ways to create agreements, structure things in different ways, so that we can have more efficient relationships between one another and ideally, be able to create more trust, and not just trust in a particular jurisdiction. But the beautiful thing about blockchain technology and the Internet more broadly is that we're able to build systems that operate globally. So a legal system that can scale globally, I think, is incredibly important and kind of points to this future state that I think many of us are working towards.
00:15:44.704 - 00:16:07.022, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, I think it's fascinating, just the concept of applying open source principles that we see in code and software to law to kind of evolve that code base. Just interestingly, between your team, what's the ratio split between lawyers and coders?
00:16:07.166 - 00:16:58.126, Speaker B: Yeah, so it's mostly developers. We have a team of about ten. There's four folks on the team that have a legal background. Some of those are lawyers that also program. So it's about 60 40 engineer, 40% kind of hybrid programmer developer lawyer, which I think is important because in many ways, what we're doing is translating some of these concepts that lawyers are kind of the high priests of things like structuring governance, things like structuring risk, things like how certain commercial operations work. Today, we kind of feel that in our bones, and we're able to implement that into code. And once we do that, because it is open source, because it's available for lots of different folks, hopefully, people don't need to reinvent the wheel.
00:16:58.126 - 00:17:39.354, Speaker B: In many ways, the legal industry today, it's kind of pre industrial. It's like a whole bunch of different lawyers sitting in their own cottages, making their own shoes. We hopefully can get to a point where this can be streamlined, automated, and systematized, and hopefully that, along with some standardization, can just reduce the costs around the globe. And where we've seen a reduction in cost in the creation and assembly of legal contracts, we tend to see very robust marketplaces emerge. You can think of options exchanges as being a good example. They're trading contracts on those exchanges, but yet there's no paperwork that's being transmitted between parties. In the venture ecosystem.
00:17:39.354 - 00:18:12.090, Speaker B: Standardization by the National Venture Capital association here in the US has reduced the cost of raising capital, has led to even tradable contracts there. We saw a bit of that during the token boom in 2016 to 2018. And in other industries like ISDA, which manages a quadrillion dollar market, standardization has led to the wide dissemination of derivatives. And we've seen similar attempts in other financial ecosystems, like syndicated loans, et cetera.
00:18:12.590 - 00:18:39.074, Speaker A: So disruptive to the legal profession, but transformative to pretty much everything else, especially in a capital markets context. And you reference this kind of eliminating grunt work. And I guess ultimately that's just the repetitive work that is inefficient and repetitive in most industries, especially, I guess, corporate formation and structuring and stuff like that.
00:18:39.192 - 00:19:29.774, Speaker B: Yeah, exactly. I mean, a lot of what lawyers do quite a bit, they're a little bit like architects and also the builders. So architects will put down on paper the structure of a house or building, and then other folks will work with the architect to put that together. Oysters do basically the same thing, go here, a set of facts here about a certain transaction, and they'll need to architect and provide counsel and guidance on how something should be structured. And then the mechanical aspects of how it's put together is still done mostly by hand. It's done in Microsoft Word, where people open up a previous file, they make some tweaks, some adjustments, add in some new language, and obviously that can get very complicated at the highest ends of the market. But for many folks, it makes lawyers feel a little bit like dentists.
00:19:29.774 - 00:20:52.814, Speaker B: They're doing the same thing over and over and over again, and there's not much innovation there. And so it means that it's ripe for automation. I think more broadly, when we start to think about kind of this future vision of web3, where we have new digital identities, new digital entities like dows, new ways to structure certain things. What we think Openlaw is useful for is creating that bridge and link to the real world. So as an example with allow, we've been able to, through our tools and through some structuring work that we did, house a Dao inside of a us based limited liability entity, such that the paperwork enables folks that want to participate in these organizations to do so in a way that should manage their real world risk. So we can limit and narrow questions that may emerge if folks want to engage in this structure. But this entire suite, along with some work that we've been doing in Wyoming to legally and officially recognize dows, means that we can get to a feature where setting up a Dow costs $75, the filing fees of the state, the smart contracts are available off the shelf, along with the ability to generate any necessary paperwork that's done.
00:20:52.814 - 00:21:30.200, Speaker B: That means you should be able to join these organizations with a matter of clicks, have all the ancillary paperwork set up, and you're kind of off to the races. So something today, setting up a fund or fund like structure, which tends to cost $75,000 on the higher end, maybe $25,000 or $20,000. If you're able to do a really commoditized structure, we can reduce the cost down to $75 plus the cost of gas. So that's pretty tremendous, and I think points to some of the efficiencies that we're able and should be able to work towards over the next couple of years.
00:21:31.050 - 00:22:20.614, Speaker A: Right. And I guess I've heard the Lao as a concept. Obviously, there is the Lao, and then there's Laos. A concept as a legal wrapper, a dow with a legal wrapper. And as I understand it, there are several variants that you could have and the reason why you would want to do that, because I think still a lot of people don't fully understand that by creating a Dow, even if it has a sufficient degree of decentralization, it doesn't necessarily remove them from the liability of what that dow might do, especially from a roles and functions perspective. So the idea is that you would want to domicile in a particular jurisdiction, so you're not open to litigation in pretty much every jurisdiction that may or may not directly or indirectly interact with that Dow and its value creation.
00:22:20.662 - 00:23:23.722, Speaker B: Right? Yeah, exactly. The story of Lous really started at various different events that MIT convened starting in 2015, where we started to think about what would this Dow structure look like in the wild. Let's say you did want to build a Dao, and not just build one, but also have it legally recognized, what would be a good way to do. And so me and Josh Fairfield, who's a professor at Washington Lee University in the US, and Primavera de Philippi, who had the pleasure of co authoring a book, and a bunch of other folks began to kind of knock our heads together and think about what this could look like. And it seemed that an LLC structure in the US was a good starting point here. In part, it was a good starting point because in the US, you're able to obtain a limitation of liability, which means that you're only responsible or you're not responsible for certain liabilities that may accrue to an organization if you're a part of it, the organization is primarily responsible for those liabilities. So that means that your personal assets are not put at stake.
00:23:23.722 - 00:24:35.474, Speaker B: And secondarily, in the US, we're able to have this limitation of liability in entity and also have that entity entirely member managed beyond that in the US as well. There's just such a strong notion of the ability for individuals to contract with one another and define their rights and obligations to one another that we recognize that it should be quite easy to put together a structure where the members of that structure agree that they're going to be governed by code. And that's what we've done with the Lao. We kind of brought that to life. We navigated through trickier questions related to what those interests in the Dow may be, and we've made sure to limit the risks that can accrue if you're working together in one of these organizations. That means if you have other personal assets at stake, if you have other ventures that you're part of, you can know what you're walking into when you walk into a DaO like structure. And the cost of setting these things up is going down dramatically, and it's only going to go down over time as kind of the legal framework, at least in the US, catches up to it.
00:24:35.474 - 00:25:53.100, Speaker B: And it seems like that's the direction that we're going. And when you think about just the ability to begin to create these pools of capital and deploy those capital, any area where there's a fund could be potentially disrupted. If you believe in this notion that a great way to cut through the tremendous amount of information that the Internet produces is to do it collectively, to use kind of a hive mind approach. And you can see dows transforming the way the venture capital industry works, transforming how hedge funds or other asset managers operate, transforming how people decide to fund creative works, transforming other aspects of the economy where there's a fund like structure. Critically, I do think for web3, these funds are important because for the most part, in the blockchain ecosystem, we've been building robust trading infrastructure. And trading infrastructure is fantastic. But organizations and dows are sticky, communities are sticky, and being able to bring people together, pool and deploy capital is really where I think the long term value of what we're building should accrete to over time.
00:25:54.350 - 00:26:05.410, Speaker A: So one point before we jump into something else, just a sense check in my own mind, an LLC is typically what a law firm would actually use as a structure, right? In the US, I don't know if the equivalent in the UK is an LLP.
00:26:05.910 - 00:26:43.274, Speaker B: A little bit. Yeah. So lots of law firms are llps. Llcs tend to be used for various different funds. So different fund structures tend to be llcs along with lots of different small businesses. It's an incredibly flexible structure that actually Wyoming pioneered back in the 1970s that blends the best parts of partnerships from a tax perspective, with the best parts of a corporation from a limitation of liability perspective. And for a lawyer, it's a little bit like when a programmer opens up an editor of some sort and wants to program, it's pretty much a blank slate.
00:26:43.274 - 00:27:28.614, Speaker B: And you can define all the rules that you want the organization to abide by, for the most part, and with limited exception, using a contract. So it's the purest expression of freedom of contract that we have. And unlike other jurisdictions, there's no need to have somebody in charge. So I don't know if this is just something that's uniquely american, but in many parts of the world, you actually have to have a manager, somebody that's ultimately responsible for the organization. With llcs, they can be member managed, and you can enjoy the tax benefits of a partnership and the limitation of liability of a corporation. So you kind of have a blank slate to play around with things beyond that. And I know you mentioned this before, in these contracts, you can also define how you want to administer disputes.
00:27:28.614 - 00:28:11.034, Speaker B: So using contracts, you should be able to set up the infrastructure to build decentralized arbitration systems, systems where people can administer their disputes and also make sure that if there is a dispute and a resolution of that dispute, that it will be enforced. In the real world, law doesn't evaporate just because you decide to pick up some code and develop that or you decide to deploy that on a blockchain. Courts and jurisdictions still have authority over the actions of people that live within their jurisdiction. And so building these bridges so that they work kind of with these legacy institutions is critically important.
00:28:11.232 - 00:28:47.246, Speaker A: Yeah. And that was going to be my next big question, which is. So the mantra since the early days of Ethereum has been, code is law. To what extent can code be law? And how does increasingly, people talk about a Dow or even a protocol as a jurisdiction in its own right. So how do these two, or a proto jurisdiction, can code be law, or to what extent can code be law? And then how do these different, this emergent or proto jurisdiction interact with existing jurisdictions?
00:28:47.438 - 00:29:57.420, Speaker B: Yeah, the notion of code is law. Great academic Lawrence Lessig kind of coined that phrase during web one when he was thinking about how code can be used to influence people and almost acts as, like, a regulatory mechanism. I think with blockchains, and this is what Primavera defilti and I wrote about in our book, you basically have that concept, but you've placed it on steroids so now you're able to not just build systems that influence people, but you can actually build systems that precisely define how people should interact, how the rules of the game. We've obviously seen this in large blockchain based networks like bitcoin and Ethereum. We're starting to see this more and more on DeFi platforms, which are kind of defining how folks should interact with one another. But ultimately, law is law, right? Law is something that a state adopts through whatever process that they choose, but at the same time, using contracts. And this is why regarding contracting systems are so important.
00:29:57.420 - 00:31:10.660, Speaker B: By using contracts, groups of people can decide and define that code or code based systems are how they decide to operate. So you're able to opt into these systems if you so choose. And you can do that quite easily if it's wrapped in a more traditional legal agreement. So you can have an agreement that says, we want to form a dow as an example, and we want to make sure that all the operations of how we interact with one another will be defined by the underlying smart contract code. And if you do that, and if it's presented in the right way, and if you have various different arbitration clauses to deal with disputes, there's not that much, at least in the US, that a court can do to disrupt that. So that's why this stuff is critically important. So if that's somebody's mantra, if that's the vision of where they want to go, if they want to start building towards kind of a proto jurisdiction like you were describing, one way to create the space for that in the global economy is to kind of ensconce it in contracts between parties to manage those risks and to make it clear what you're entering into.
00:31:11.670 - 00:32:04.050, Speaker A: And so is that, at least in the short to midterm, really weaning actors off the requirement to resolve things through the traditional means within a jurisdiction and to just solve for things digitally, is there any recourse? So, for example, if a dow is operated by a handful of people, they're all physically based in different jurisdictions. Of course, they subscribe to, let's say, Wyoming law, but they have a dispute. Is there precedence over a jurisdiction? Could somebody in France say, well, actually, I feel aggrieved, and I'm going to take this to a french court? Or do they have to always defer to the jurisdiction where that entity is formed?
00:32:04.790 - 00:33:00.040, Speaker B: So you can include in contracts things like forum selection clauses, choice of law clauses, et cetera, which will make it incredibly difficult for the french person in your example, to bring a case in France. If a judge or court in France looks at that, they see the contract in place, they see an arbitration clause. I would say most more advanced economies will abide by that arbitration provision. So there may be certain jurisdictional peculiarities, maybe certain ways to void those out, but it's a pretty narrow attack vector to try to do that. And particularly in the US, if you have in your agreement arbitration provisions, choice of law provisions, choice of forum provisions, it's pretty hard to impeach those.
00:33:01.130 - 00:34:36.550, Speaker A: Fascinating. So you've mentioned Wyoming, and of course, where crypto chooses to base itself at the moment to create its foundations, to issue tokens out of, are in places like Switzerland, Singapore, Bermuda, Wyoming, Malta. Fairly exotic places compared to where most of these people are physically based, for example, relatively small nation states, but where I guess they have greater latitude to innovate and work with a nation industry like crypto. To what extent? So in parallel, it's worth saying, I'm reading Treasure island at the moment, which is a fascinating book on the offshore system and around tax avoidance and how much wealth is actually held in these environments, as opposed to in taxable environments like the US, UK, etc. So what extent are you seeing the formation of the crypto industry happen in effectively offshore environments? And what do you think the kind of societal implications of that could be if the next phase of the Internet, most of that economic value, is governed in those jurisdictions?
00:34:37.290 - 00:36:00.554, Speaker B: Yeah, I think that's a great question. Like you noted, many of the reasons why people set up in foreign jurisdictions are either to deal with some naughty tax related issues, or it's a perception that you can avoid a particular regulatory scheme like the US or parts of Europe by setting up an entity in those foreign jurisdictions. The latter hasn't really panned out. So it's been difficult just to set up an entity in another jurisdiction and claim that, let's say you're out of the purview of us regulators. We've clearly seen that in cases like BitMex, where the core entity was organized in the Seychelles, but at the same time they had developers in the US, the US government had no problem cracking down on them because they believed that there was some sort of an issue or various different violations. My sense is though, just to kind of take this up a little bit, there will be one jurisdiction or a handful of jurisdictions that kind of nail the right approach for how to set up these Dow like structures. And since they operate globally, if the rules related to it are clear, if there's clear regulatory guidance, if people know that the way that they want to organize their affairs will be enforced locally.
00:36:00.554 - 00:36:55.346, Speaker B: That jurisdiction probably will become quite large and will become the place for these entities to be set up. We've seen this in the US. Us companies may operate across the various different 50 states, but they tend to organize in only a handful of states because they know that the rules are clear, they know what they're getting into, and that enables them to operate not just here in the US, but globally. So states like Delaware, most Fortune 500 companies and lots of other companies around the globe will be organized in Delaware just because they kind of know the setup, they know the rules of the game. I think the same thing is going to happen with dows. And some of this forum shopping probably will diminish over time as certain regulatory questions begin to get addressed. And I think where we're moving towards, for lots of the projects and we funded at this point, about like 30 plus projects through the.
00:36:55.346 - 00:37:32.974, Speaker B: Wow. We're seeing that kind of the next generation of blockchain companies are probably going to be moving towards these Dow structures. So they're going to be deploying smart contracts that are managed primarily via DAO with a governance token that's sitting on top. And maybe that, maybe there's some light regarding contracting work between members of the DAO just to make sure that certain risks are accounted for. And once that happens, I think that we'll start to see more and more projects kind of walk down that path. And I think that's a good thing.
00:37:33.172 - 00:38:03.250, Speaker A: Yeah, I mean, it's interesting you think that with time, a particular jurisdiction will kind of dominate the space. And I guess that would make sense. So we had the. I don't think prime minister is the right term, but the elected leader in Bermuda, which I actually didn't know so much prior to the interview, but Bermuda is a global center for insurance and reinsurance. Is it Bermuda or Barbados?
00:38:03.410 - 00:38:08.114, Speaker B: I think you're right. Bermuda. Bermuda, Cayman's BBI.
00:38:08.242 - 00:38:58.274, Speaker A: Right. And that is a global center, tiny population of like 15,000 people on an island. But that is the global center for insurance and reinsurance, and it has regulatory equivalents with both the US and Europe. And so similarly, I guess, various jurisdictions are looking at this as a land grab, and that would certainly feel intuitive, that history would repeat itself. You know, I think whilst, of course, there might be valid concerns around either an extension or continuation of what we see in offshore, generally in banking, financial services, in crypto. At the same time, crypto is inherently global. And so, for example, outlier is an LLP structure with an offshore component.
00:38:58.274 - 00:39:35.890, Speaker A: And that's primarily because we're not all Brits based in the UK. We're kind of a group of people from all over the world, and we kind of settle our, say tax in the jurisdiction that we happen to reside in at the, you know, if you then apply that to hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands of people distributed everywhere, it makes sense that you would leverage that kind of global offshore infrastructure to accommodate that. So you mentioned some of the dows that you've invested. I think you said 30 via the Lao. And I know you're also working. You've kind of collaborated. Molok Dow.
00:39:35.890 - 00:39:54.860, Speaker A: More recently, aside from the Lao, you've done the flamingo Dow, which is an NFT Dow. And you've got, I think you said three, four, five more lined up, including a liquidity dow. Could you talk us through the collaboration with Moloch and the other kind of instances of daos that you've been working?
00:39:55.870 - 00:40:45.820, Speaker B: Sure. So, you know, Moloch Dao, I thought, was really a game changer. The Dao itself was an incredibly interesting concept. And once I saw Molec, I realized that it seems like we solved, at least in part, some of the smart contract issues with how to build dows. So due to the great work of Amin and James Young and a whole bunch of other fantastic developers, Malik was summoned off the bat. But Malik had one flaw, or one flaw initially, which is it could pool capital and deploy that to another party, but it couldn't accept into it any assets from another organization. So kind of the full loop wasn't there.
00:40:45.820 - 00:42:00.886, Speaker B: So starting about a year and a half ago around ETH Berlin in 2000, and I think that was August 2018, I started to talk to Amin and some others just about how we could extend it so that we could start to not just build grant giving dows, but also other forms of dows, most notably like a more venture style dow. So we began to think about what V two could look like with the core innovation added to v two being the ability to accept into the Dow other forms of assets. So Amin folks on our side and also folks from the meta cartel ecosystem began to knock our heads together. We began to implement the smart contracts. We got them audited by consensus diligence, and we spent some time on our end doing the legal structure and work related to it. So now with Molok V two, we have the ability to play around with lots of different fund or fund like structures, which is pretty awesome. And what we're building out with allow and Lao members is not just one Dow, but an entire ecosystem of dows.
00:42:00.886 - 00:43:20.858, Speaker B: So imagine, if you can, if Silicon Valley or every fund around the globe had the same core operating system, that operating system being Ethereum, Ethereum based smart contracts, open law automation, tooling for all the legal paperwork, and obviously other assets that may get pegged or wrapped or somehow appended to the Ethereum blockchain that would be incredibly powerful. You've standardized things kind of across the board so that these organizations don't just interact as separate islands, but actually can talk, communicate, pass information, do a whole bunch of different things together. So the Lao was kind of our first kind of mothership, our mother Dow. And through that, we've been able to collect about $7 million worth of ether, deploy that to lots of great projects in the ecosystem. But more broadly, we've also thought about where these structures can work in other areas. So the members themselves of the LAU have been thinking about how these DAO structures can get rolled out. One of the first ideas that we had here was thinking about the NFT ecosystem, not just from funding the underlying infrastructure, but also the NFTs themselves.
00:43:20.858 - 00:44:04.810, Speaker B: So we've been able to pull together a second dow, which again has the same core operating system as the Laos. And the LAO obviously has a stake in Flamingo Dow to actually acquire individual nfts. So that launched about a month or so ago. We've already started to acquire a whole bunch of nfts. The idea there, much like with the Lao and the Dao itself, is that this hive mind, this approach of pulling together a whole bunch of disparate people online, you can begin to kind of cut through the noise. You can source strategies, get feedback on them, and kind of take the right steps. So we've been able to do that with allow and also with Flamingo.
00:44:04.810 - 00:45:31.330, Speaker B: What's coming next is now that we've backed 30 plus projects, we realize that many of these projects are using some sort of liquidity pool or have, or intend to have some form of liquidity mining possibilities that will be related to them. So we are launching a third dow, hopefully by the end of the year, if not early next year, that will be focused on liquidity mining. So that means if you have assets, if you're not able to understand what opportunities are there when it comes to liquidity mining, which projects to back, you'll have kind of a group of folks that are able to kind of weigh in and assess those risks and opportunities. After that, we've been looking really closely at the personal token space, and likely we'll be launching a Dow that's focused on how we can help artists or other creative workers, influencers begin to think about launching various different personal tokens. We think that's going to be quite big in 2021. And then the last thing that we have cooking is that we have version three of Molok that we've been working on. What we're considering version three, the Molok community will have to accept it that version three of Molok will create Dow structures that are incredibly modular.
00:45:31.330 - 00:46:16.306, Speaker B: So you can actually plug into it different modules into your organization. And beyond that, you'll have no cost governance voting, and exceptionally low cost asset transfers. So one of the downsides right now with daos is that it costs a lot to get and have people weigh in for certain events. We've been able to adapt some of the work that snapshot and the balancer team has done so that we can have low cost governance voting. But we figured out a way to have low cost asset transfers. So that means that people can decide how they want to transfer assets without burning a whole bunch of different gas. So that will get rolled out probably early next year as well.
00:46:16.306 - 00:46:43.502, Speaker B: But what that means is instead of being tethered to one ecosystem like Aragon, and they've done incredible work, we basically are at a point where we can have the DAO ecosystem develop like we saw the token ecosystem develop with various different ERC standards, where you deploy kind of a spine of a DAO, and then you can plug and play different pieces into it to build any type of organization that you want. So that's the type of stuff that we're working on. Wow.
00:46:43.556 - 00:47:43.258, Speaker A: Fascinating. I mean, just as you were talking, I've made notes about seven different flavors of Dow that I could think of across our portfolio that I'm definitely going to hit you up on after the end of the show. Final question, because I'm conscious of time. There's a lot of debate around the role and power of executive in decentralized systems, in particular dows. What's your perspective as a lawyer and now somebody that's helping people structure dows? How do you balance the requirement for an executive? So one of the arguments is you need an empowered executive to be able to contract between dows. Or if you're an early stage Dow and you're an equivalent of a lean startup, you need to be able to iterate quickly without getting bogged down in votes. What's your perspective, both philosophically and then, I guess, empirically, based on your experiences so far?
00:47:43.444 - 00:48:33.886, Speaker B: Yeah, I don't know if you necessarily need an executive. I think that there's a desire for that because that's all we know today. But you're starting to see glimmers of groups and organizations that are not really driven by one primary or a handful of executives. So yearn or WiFi is a great example here. There's obviously somebody that created it, somebody that brought it to life, but there's not one single person pushing that forward and helping to grow at that ecosystem. And that ecosystem is growing incredibly fast. Right? We're starting to see not just that project, but a whole bunch of other projects that are getting appended onto that ecosystem, not merging, but kind of collaborating or in other ways interacting with that.
00:48:33.886 - 00:49:31.390, Speaker B: And I think that that's not surprising because we saw a similar approach with both bitcoin and Ethereum. With bitcoin, we don't even know who the founder is, and yet we've seen it kind of grow to this global giant and increasingly powerful network without having one core leader, Ethereum. We knew who the leaders are, but those leaders never had kind of final say over anything. They were kind of more guiding the ship, almost like herders, as opposed to dictating how things should go, more like managers or general partners. So philosophically, I think that that is where things are going. And philosophically, I think data structures will be able to not just beat existing structures, but in many ways vastly surpass them because they're better able to marshal information. And that's what we've been seeing with allow.
00:49:31.390 - 00:50:38.882, Speaker B: We have 57 plus members who are scouring the Internet for various different opportunities and are able to bring that back into the lau to see whether or not this is something other folks are interested in. So if there's questions about whether or not a project is good, if there's technical questions, if there's all these little issues that come up when folks are evaluating whether or not to back a project, having two managers or their small team be able to assess that is one thing. Having a whole clan of people that are able to do that, and hopefully over time, even other folks that are not core members, but are just down the periphery weigh in and work or provide some sort of input, I just think is a vastly superior model. And when you couple that with much lower costs of operating these things, then I just think that that's a winning combination to me. And this is why I've always been fascinating with dows. They're the purest expression of private ordering. So the ability of people to order their affairs the way that they see fit without interference from a state actor or a manager.
00:50:38.882 - 00:51:36.038, Speaker B: And I think that that is where the Internet is going. I think that's the best way in such a large, disparate global system that we're operating to operate. And I think the power of the technology that many of us are fascinated with is that it is now feasible to do that. We have this trusted infrastructure in a blockchain so that even if we don't know one another, even if we're not in the same place, we're able to work together in a way that's productive, in a way that hopefully makes the lives of people around us better and hopefully can ensure that we can feed our families, make sure that we can take care of our friends, and hopefully have a little bit left over at the end of the day. And I think that that's incredibly important. And I think it's also important because we're seeing, particularly in the blockchain ecosystem, that lots of the great projects and teams and artists and creators, they're not just based in the US. They're not just based in a small corridor of California.
00:51:36.038 - 00:52:00.722, Speaker B: They're not just based in parts of Europe. They're global. Some of the best teams don't have access to capital. They don't have access to the support that they need in their local jurisdictions. But by moving into the blockchain ecosystem, by gaining access to global pools of capital, they can fulfill what they're hoping to fulfill. They can build what they want to build. They can hopefully improve their lot just like the rest of us.
00:52:00.722 - 00:52:04.514, Speaker B: And I think that that's really important and something that we're deeply committed to.
00:52:04.632 - 00:52:20.280, Speaker A: Aaron, I think no better point to end than on that wonderful vision, incredibly optimistic one as well, which we all need right now in the world. Thanks so much for coming on the show. I wish you the best of luck with. You said it's the third dow that's going to be released imminently, right?
00:52:21.210 - 00:52:35.358, Speaker B: Yeah. So if you are interested in learning more, make sure to check us out on Twitter. We'll talk some more about that, join our telegram group or feel free to send us a note. Thanks so much, Jamie. Really appreciate your time.
00:52:35.524 - 00:52:47.020, Speaker A: Thanks. If you enjoyed today's podcast, please make sure you subscribe, rate and share your feedback to help us reach as many people as possible with the important mission of web3.
