00:00:02.480 - 00:00:48.004, Speaker A: Everyone, how's it going? Welcome to my speech on privacy and web three. Why should you care? And how do we improve privacy protocols to prevent hackers and criminals? First, a bit about me, hard to tell there, but my name is Daniel Lumi. I'm a web three consultant researcher specializing in l two zk, privacy and daos. So today we'll be inbound. Why should you. Privacy, it's cutting off a bit. How do we improve privacy protocols to prevent hackers? And what steps can you take to protect your privacy? So why privacy? And this is the most common thing that I hear, honestly, for privacy is if I didn't do anything wrong, then why should I care? It's fine.
00:00:48.004 - 00:01:43.874, Speaker A: And I like what Edward Snowden said about this, that essentially arguing that you don't care about privacy because you have nothing to hide is no different than saying you don't care about speech because you have nothing to say. Right? And here's examples of where you would want privacy. So let's say you get paid in crypto. Maybe you buy something like playboy or a very stupid jPeg. Maybe you don't want your employer to know that because it might not be a great signal about your professional capabilities, right? Or maybe you buy something very stupid, like Solana. I mean, ask Rocket 69. That's not a great signal either, right? Or like, you donate to a polarizing cause or charity, right? So the example of this is, I gave money to Ukraine now, right? I did it actually, purposely in public, because, fuck you, I don't think I can ever go back to Russia.
00:01:43.874 - 00:02:59.272, Speaker A: It's pretty obvious. And now I. What is it, considered a war criminal or something, right? Or maybe it's abortions or you want to free Edward Snowden, right? These are actually things that some governments might determine you as a risk, being abused or harassed, right? Someone has your account information, now they see every single transaction you have where you are, what you're doing. That's a bad situation to be in, right? Or you pay or use something, you go to a gas station, should they have your entire financial history because you bought some gas or a Snickers bar? And like, the general question is, like, would you give your bank statement to every single person you ever met just because you wanted to join a party or bought something? Like, it just seems dystopian. It's not something we would actually do. But this is actually how blockchains work right now. And the point if crypto at some point achieves mainstream, which, right, every single bank, every single institution, Facebook, everyone can farm your data and they can target you a lot more specifically than just what things you're clicking like on.
00:02:59.272 - 00:03:35.490, Speaker A: Right. It's not a situation we actually want to be in. So how do we improve privacy protocols helping hackers or criminals? Because I think that's the number one concern that people have for privacy protocols is true for me too. I don't want to help hackers or criminals. I just want to retain my personal right to privacy. And yeah, that's like, if we actually made payments private, how do we continue tracking terrorists, for example? And first of all, I don't support hacking. Don't do hacking.
00:03:35.490 - 00:04:29.170, Speaker A: Not a good thing. Don't do crimes. Be good guys. But honestly, like, the sort of philosophy that we have is distracting philosophical argument that we have for this is throughout human history, money was always private. Nobody tracked you at all for anything. Right? It wasn't until the sixties that we started actually tracking financial information, right? So my argument is if we restore privacy and cash, we're just going to the old paradigm. We just removed this data extraction paradigm that we've been in in the last like 60 years, right? And a lot of things are reliant on privacy, the Internet today, everything is encrypted, right? And that's a good thing because if you make payments over the Internet, if you search something random, you can't be tracked and you can't have your bank account stolen from.
00:04:29.170 - 00:05:16.822, Speaker A: And the way that we do this in the current world is you don't regulate the transport layer, you don't regulate HTTPs and be like, oh, you're transmitting data and money. You get to the like, you regulate the banks, the front ends, and like eBay, you make sure that someone's not listening crack on eBay, right? We don't need to regulate it at the privacy protocol level. We can regulate it on off ramps. On ramps, you know? And so here's actual examples. We can improve privacy protocols to prevent hackers. So essentially this is called proof of exclusion of membership. Essentially you can have a list of OFAC'd individuals or known hackers, known criminals.
00:05:16.822 - 00:06:27.104, Speaker A: And before you deposit into the privacy protocol, and after you deposit, you essentially make a proof and you show that your address is not one of the addresses on this list, right? And that benefits us because privacy protocols inherit security by how long you keep your money there. So it gives time for organizations to track down the wormhole hacker, for example, before they move their funds. Another one is the opposite of membership. Maybe your bank or your government attests to the fact that this is a real person, they pay their taxes, they have x amount of money. And then you can use tornado cash if you're on this list. Another thing that is already true in most privacy protocols is you have this thing called a viewing key, right? Your data is encrypted, your transactions are encrypted. But if you want to show this transaction list for like you're being audited or they have a warrant for your arrest, you can give the actual viewing key and then the IR's can actually make sure you paid your taxes on it.
00:06:27.104 - 00:07:22.602, Speaker A: We can also do daily deposit limits, and this greatly sort of limits how much money can be put through. Like you or me. We're not going to send, well, maybe some of you, tens of millions, hundreds of millions, right? Someone else might, right? So we can institute deposit limits both on a per account basis as well as a total protocol basis. So if wormhole gets hacked for 300 million, you can only push x million through this protocol in one day. And then it takes them a very long time to push money through and it gives devs time to essentially block their accounts, again with proof of exclusion of membership or something. There is something called a travel rule as well. In the US and Europe, if you send over x amount of money, the bank needs to collect those transactions and report them, right? So in the US that limit is 10,000.
00:07:22.602 - 00:08:05.354, Speaker A: It's trivially easy to make it. So if I send over ten k, it's not public private anymore. That data doesn't get encrypted, it becomes public. But if I send under ten k a day, it stays private. Right? And ten k sounds like a lot, but honestly, like, the amount of money that people are laundering or criminals are trying to get through is tiny. It would take you hundreds of days to move 1 million and again, gives you time to institute lists. Here's some random, just completely random other examples of how privacy could actually help blockchains besides just you believing in your own privacy.
00:08:05.354 - 00:08:34.682, Speaker A: We could fully eliminate MeV and all censorship if we did something called threshold encrypted transactions. Right? We talk about Mev. It's a huge issue. Easy. The reality is, this is actually not that hard to do. You have the same validators you have on Ethereum. And essentially, if a certain threshold of them don't collude, you have fully private transactions.
00:08:34.682 - 00:09:13.886, Speaker A: They get inserted at block n and then they only get revealed n plus one, right? So at that point, the transaction is already there. They can't frontrun you, they can't sandwich you, right? Osmosis is working on that. Also, there's some ETH proposals for that as well, like ETH research proposals. Vitav has been talking about this idea of private nfts. So maybe you buy a monkey picture and you want to show it to your friends. You don't want to burn your main accounts because those cost a lot, right? So you could actually hold an NFT. No one would know who actually belongs to you.
00:09:13.886 - 00:09:43.694, Speaker A: Just have it in a private account. You can do the same with tokens. Like we could actually have private accounts directly on ethel one. Actually, another thing that I didn't have time to put into a slide. There's another new concept of how to do private accounts directly on l one or l two. You've probably heard of account abstraction, right? The idea is that you don't actually know who's signing the account abstracted wallet. You see the address there, but you don't know who the signer is.
00:09:43.694 - 00:10:38.572, Speaker A: So if you combine that with the dark pool, essentially this sort of contract that sends out money thing in batches, you don't know whose wallet is whose wallet, so it just becomes harder to track you, right? And this way we could interact directly with l one, with l two without actually even having a layer two system. Here's steps that you can take to protect your privacy, or just considerations for privacy protocols. You might be able to use a centralized exchange that might actually help hide your assets a bit, at least from your friends or colleagues. Of course, Coinbase or whoever is going to know where it's going, but it's a good step. The problem is most exchanges don't shuffle. Addresses, like Kraken, for example, do not deposit there from two addresses you're trying to keep hidden. They freeze the address.
00:10:38.572 - 00:11:39.288, Speaker A: Some other exchanges, like Coinbase at one point at least shuffled all of their deposit and withdrawal addresses. So that's a good first step to take to just try to segregate your funds a bit. And the better answer for what you can do is a privacy protocol, whether it's a layer two privacy protocol or it's an account abstract, that dark pool, right? And essentially, a privacy protocol just lets you send funds without actually showing who it's going to, what amount you're sending. It depends a little bit how they configure. And essentially in a ZK privacy protocol, you generate the proof locally on your computer that you're not double spending, that you have enough money to spend. And then the networks on the nodes on the network just verify that they don't actually execute the transaction for you. And currently, there are some other methods to do it, like fully homomorphic encryption or Intel SGX or MPC for privacy protocols.
00:11:39.288 - 00:12:28.574, Speaker A: Right now, ZK is the best. And in the future, maybe fully homomorphic encryption with ZK will be the best. And tracking in a privacy protocol is really just a game of mathematical probability, right? So you are relying on this privacy or anonymity set, right? So if you're sending idiosyncratic amounts, like 0.0,132,456 in, and then you send it somewhere else, it's pretty obvious who you are, right? So you should deposit in amounts of 0.1, 110. And typically, like, this is the example of tornado caches, anonymity set before they actually, like, got sanctioned for whatever reason. So one ETH was the most common.
00:12:28.574 - 00:12:56.604, Speaker A: So if you send one ETH or less than one ETH, you're protected by this whole privacy set, right. It just becomes harder to figure out who exactly owns the 0.1 ETH. And again, posit time matters, right, because this is actually how we figured out who the Ronin hacker was. North Korea, by the way, was. They were really dumb about it. They sent 300 million to, I think it was 300 million at once.
00:12:56.604 - 00:13:50.050, Speaker A: The whole hack was 600 million to tornado cash. And then they withdrew it a couple of hours later. It's like, okay, well, there aren't many people that have $300 million, so that guy, the longer you wait, a few days, weeks, months, the more you get mixed into this anonymity set, right, the more likely it could be someone else's tool. Any privacy protocol that supports inter transfers, like, for example, Aztec connect back in the day, would let you do, essentially swaps through l one, and then it deposits it back into l two. The more swaps you have, the more lending inside the protocol you have, the more shuffles. Who it could possibly be? Normally, I would say to try Aztec connect. It's by far my favorite of the privacy protocols.
00:13:50.050 - 00:14:12.622, Speaker A: The problem is they turned it off. They're working on Astec 3.0. It's actually super exciting. It's a public private blockchain. It's coming out sometime next year, so that's a good option in the future. For right now, here's some other privacy protocols. I'm not vouching for any of these, by the way.
00:14:12.622 - 00:14:39.586, Speaker A: I'm just saying, if you're on ETH, preferably you'd have a l two, but there aren't many l two s. There is railgun, but again, I'm not even vouching for them. I don't know how legit that is. You could use secret network, you could use polygon min in the future zcash. But good luck doing safe cross chain bridging. I do have a whole speech on ZK 101. We talked a lot about ZK today.
00:14:39.586 - 00:15:21.360, Speaker A: Actually, I did the speech earlier today. You can watch it here. You're probably not going to be able to scan that QR, though, so just go on my twitter, you'll find it. There's also the issue of when we don't use l two and we have funds on Ethereum, there's a lot of security risks of moving funds to other chains. So I have the next generation of safer bridges and how they all fucking suck to crypto advocacy. Because honestly, if you believe in privacy, if you believe in some of these rights, nobody's going to do it for us. It's not like Joe Biden's going to sit there being like, yeah, yeah, privacy, that's a good thing.
00:15:21.360 - 00:15:47.244, Speaker A: You need to actually work for for it. You can't just passively wait around. At the very least, you can outsource it, give it to EFF or coincident or blockchain association, and they'll fight on your behalf. Money matters in this world. Thanks for caring. Privacy, not just for you, but for everyone in the world. You can follow me at zklumi on Twitter as well.
00:15:47.244 - 00:16:06.856, Speaker A: Also, Tadeo has a lot of shirts that he needs to give out. He can't get out. They're a bit plasticky, but they look cool. So talk to him afterwards. It doesn't matter. It looks nice. Cool.
00:16:06.856 - 00:16:38.034, Speaker A: Are there any questions, please? Do you mind repeating the question so the audience hears? Absolutely. You talked a lot about privacy of payments. What about privacy of data? Yeah. Privacy of data in the blockchain setting means privacy of payments. Right. I strongly believe, like, there isn't much data you're storing on a blockchain that's not directly related to finances. Right.
00:16:38.034 - 00:17:35.484, Speaker A: And if you want true privacy of your data, I recommend not uploading it to a cloud, including a blockchain, it just waiting to be, like, extracted from there. Of course, I'm a huge advocate of privacy for data you can have in the future, something like secret networks working on a fully homomorphic encryption protocol. You could store data in that protocol and essentially, well, I won't go into explaining fhe right now, but the blockchain applications right now are fairly limited for data storage. Thank you a lot. Cheers. Thank you. Good day.
