00:00:00.170 - 00:00:35.746, Speaker A: There's many different layer one chains. How is Aptos special? Aptos? I think a lot of it. You know, what, what makes us Aptos really different, I think comes with its founding history. And so I'll kind of walk through that. So back in, I was at meta for ten years, working on a variety of different things in data infrastructure. And in 2018, there was an, there's an effort to build out a, a network that could support Reminisce's payments and some largest use cases in the world with distribution for meta. And the project was called Libra.
00:00:35.746 - 00:02:13.560, Speaker A: And over time, kind of evolved to include things like Novi and Diem. Diem being an association of partners that could build out a top tier technology stack that could support their ambitions. I joined the team pretty early on in 2018, started working in the consensus space, and then overall became the web3 blockchain lead for meta. And during that experience, I think what really resonated a lot with our team was very philosophical. I've worked in data infrastructure for a long time, solved a lot of challenges in terms of how do we process massive amounts of data, extract lots of insights, and use it to power products that have billion plus audiences with that knowledge, I think this is a very unique opportunity where we can change the way Internet looks and runs, where everyone can have access to it, everyone can own a piece of it, everyone can participate as much as they like into it. And so this mission of building out a public utility, I think stuck with a lot of us as the core mission of what our technology was designed to do as a part of that, it was really like, how do we reach billions of people? That's kind of our MO in meta was we definitely want a lot of scale, and there's a lot of benefits from that type of scale, of economy. And so when you think about how do you kind of reach that level of scale, it comes down to what are the systems you're building underneath it? What is the blockchain technology? What is the way we think about also the developer experience of constructing applications in a way that is very different than the way you think about coding today.
00:02:13.560 - 00:02:52.318, Speaker A: Most people think about coding as I develop something, I test something out, it has some bugs, I fix it, I roll those fixes forward. And that's a kind of traditional developer cycle when it comes to smart contract development, that doesn't work. We can't have bugs there, we can't have funds or assets being lost. And in order for people to be able to trust that this is a reliable infrastructure, we decided to kind of start from the grounds up in that mission. And so with that, a couple of key technologies were built out. One was the DM blockchain, and the other one, the move language. The move language is a very different way of thinking about writing smart contract development.
00:02:52.318 - 00:03:38.014, Speaker A: It is a way that is designed to make sure that people can actually own their assets, that they're not stuck in a contract that kind of has a map of ownership, and those things, assets are unreachable. It prevents simple programmer mistakes through today, preventing dynamic dispatch. But over time, things that we can actually enable in the future. It also prevents the ability. The way you think about things is more around. You just can't make certain types of mistakes. You have a coin module, and that coin module is unable to accidentally just drop money on the floor or forget about it, or multiply or increase that supply without going through proper functions and constraints that make sure and permissions to ensure kind of, you don't make those mistakes as a programmer.
00:03:38.014 - 00:04:42.450, Speaker A: And so it's fundamentally thinking about how do you get from ideation into production, not only just quickly, but also safely as possible? And that being a game changer in the way that developers can bring their ideas to life in a new network was one key difference. Another key difference is the infrastructure. We looked at things like Ethereum and tendermint and others, very promising, but we didn't feel it was designed for scale. And so with that, we had to redesign the way we think about how does scale look like in this space? And so, drawing back on my knowledge of system design, I also, before this, I worked on high performance computing and supercomputing at places like Argon, Sandia, and Los Alamos. As you know, those systems are designed to have massive parallelism to support the largest applications of the world around, protein folding, other very hard scientific challenges. And you think about the way you design a system, it should be supporting high levels of parallelism, it should be highly concurrent. It should make sure that programming model is integrated very carefully into the system, so it can support those key innovations.
00:04:42.450 - 00:05:32.418, Speaker A: And at the end of the day, it looks like a decentralized database to most people. It is just very fast, highly performant, very low latency. And so you can build on top of it the kind of Internet applications you see today, except for they're based on web3, they are owned by the users. They are a permissionless database that everyone can interact and agree on, settlement on. And so those two things, I think, are the key kind of pieces that we started off in 2018 with I think another key differentiator is upgradability. And the ability for the system to be able to change very rapidly over time through technology advances is super important because this space is moving very, very quickly. And so being able to design that system where we said, look, we have a mechanism for being able to change your consensus protocol as a part of a governance update that's voted a fraud chain.
00:05:32.418 - 00:06:34.454, Speaker A: The ability for us to evolve the way accounts are looked at over time and support account abstraction natively, or the way that we are able to kind of scale out in many different ways, from leveraging more resources on a single machine to also going across multiple machines over time as a way to kind of scale up and scale down the same way you think about cloud infrastructure, also very, very key. And also add new features like on chain randomness, which is very interesting and maybe one of the best important use cases of blockchain today. So it's a combination of starting off from how do we support billions of users from a systems perspective and from a language smart contracts development perspective, to how do we also iterate really quickly with technology over time. And the last piece, I would say, is providing that user experience that looks exactly like the Internet. So we can support those 5 billion Internet users today, while there's only maybe tens of millions of kind of web, three users. And growing that audience into the larger Internet audience is very key for us. So those are the kind of key differentiators.
00:06:34.454 - 00:07:14.406, Speaker A: I think, from the Optos perspective, from a philosophy standpoint, from a practicality standpoint, what we've also shown is that Aptos has the highest performance out there in terms of scalability. We do things differently in terms of transparency. There's a lot of noise in the space, okay, we're the fastest, we're the most scalable, so on and so forth. These experiments are often not repeatable, they're not end to end. And so what we've done is taken a very different approach, like from our history. We look at things like there are lots of database benchmarks out there, and there's a way to kind of measure these databases against each other through TPC, for example, which is a benchmarking suite. We don't have that in blockchain today.
00:07:14.406 - 00:07:54.540, Speaker A: So we start to build out those processes, we start to put together those infrastructures and the frameworks for us to say, like, here's our framework for valuation, here's our experimental setup, here's the machine configurations anyone can run. Those experiments have verifiable and repeatable results. And what we were to demonstrate was we could get more than 2 billion transactions per second. Sorry, per day in a minute like environment that 70 plus node operators witnessed and verified, which is more than 14 times what visa can do. And that's instant settlement, unlike where in visa, where it kind of settles and then kind of settles again over time. So I think those are kind of the things that we think really separate us from other infrastructures out there.
